Division of Global Health Protection
Notice of Funding Opportunity
Application due Friday, October 2, 2026
Expanding global health security
through local partnerships in
Nigeria
Opportunity number: CDC-RFA-JG-26-0043
Contents
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 4
Basic information 5
Eligibility 8
Agency priorities 11
Program description 14
Step 2: Get Ready to Apply 37
Get registered 38
Find the application package 39
Help applying 39
Step 3: Build Your Application 40
Application checklist 41
Application contents and format 43
Step 4: Understand Review, Selection, and Award 55
Application Review 56
Award notices 58
Step 5: Submit Your Application 59
Submission and deadlines 60
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 62
Post-award requirements and administration 63
Contacts and Support 68
Before you begin 3
Contents 2
Before you begin
If you believe you are a good candidate for this funding opportunity, secure
your SAM.gov and Grants.gov registrations now. If you are already registered,
make sure your registrations are active and up to date.
SAM.gov registration (this can take several weeks)
You must have an active account with SAM.gov. This includes having a Unique
Entity Identifier (UEI).
See Step 2: Get Ready to Apply
Grants.gov registration (this can take several days)
You must have an active Grants.gov registration. Doing so requires a
Login.gov registration as well.
See Step 2: Get Ready to Apply
Apply by the application due date
Applications are due by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on Friday, October 2, 2026.
To help you find what you need, this NOFO uses internal links. In Adobe
Reader, you can go back to where you were by pressing Alt + Left Arrow
(Windows) or Command + Left Arrow (Mac) on your keyboard.
Before you begin 3
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1:
Review the Opportunity
In this step
Basic information 5
Eligibility 8
Agency priorities 11
Program description 14
Basic information
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Global Health Center
Division of Global Health Protection
Making America safer, stronger, and more prosperous by
strengthening global health security through surveillance,
prevention, and response with a focus on strengthening
National and Sub-national International Health Regulations
capacities in Nigeria.
Have questions?
See Contacts and
Support.
Key facts
Opportunity name:
Expanding global health
security through local
partnerships in Nigeria
Opportunity number:
CDC-RFA-JG-26-0043
Assistance listing:
93.318: Protecting and
Improving Health
Globally: Building and
Strengthening Public
Health Impact, Systems,
Capacity, and Security
NOFO version:
Original
Key dates
Application submission
deadline: Friday,
October 2, 2026
Expected award
and start date:
October 30, 2026
We will inform you
of your application
status by the end of
October 2026.
Summary
This Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) aims to strengthen Nigerian
organizations capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to public health
threats. Organizations include:
• The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC).
• Other Government of Nigeria (GoN) ministries, departments, and
agencies (MDAs).
• Sub-national public health institutions, such as State Ministries of Health
and local government authorities.
Nigeria completed its second Joint External Evaluation (JEE) in 2023, which is a
multi-sectorial assessment of a country’s capacity to achieve with Global
Health Security Agenda (GHSA) goals. The results improved significantly from
their first JEE, increasing from 39% in 2017 to 54% in 2023. However, several
gaps remain. Stronger health systems and a larger workforce will better
enable the NCDC and other Nigerian agencies to work together to meet CDC’s
global health priorities. Stronger sub-national capacities will improve
detection and response to health threats at the local level where they occur.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 5
Funding details
Funding Type: Cooperative agreement
Expected total NOFO funding for Year 1: $15,000,000
This is the expected total Year 1 funding for all awards made under
this NOFO.
Expected awards: 2-3
The number of awards is subject to available funds and program priorities.
Exact amounts for each award under this NOFO will be determined
upon award.
We plan to award projects for five 12-month budget periods for a five-year
period of performance.
Funding strategy
Funding amounts
We encourage you to submit an application that includes a budget and work
plan for each required component, consistent with the applicable component
ceilings. For Year 1, applicants must submit separate budgets and work plans
for all three components, not exceeding each component ceiling, although
only Components 1, 2, and/or 3 core activities are expected to be funded
initially and Components 2 and 3 may be approved but unfunded pending
future availability of funds.
Funding amounts for Years 2 through 5 will be set at continuation. We will
continue funding based on:
• Availability of funds.
• Evidence of satisfactory progress, as documented in your
required reports.
• The determination that continued funding is in the best interest of the
federal government.
Component funding
Overview
We fund all Global Health Security (GHS) cooperative agreements using
component funding. You must apply for all components and include a budget
and work plan for each. Note: For the purposes of this NOFO, components 1,
2, and 3 are considered the core components, meaning they support baseline
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 6
GHS activities that are not dependent on emergency funding. This does not
change the requirement that applicants apply for all components.
Component funding allows us to provide funding as it becomes available. To
do so, we fund sets of activities by project (such as emergency or routine),
when necessary.
CDC may fund one or more of your components to start the budget period,
and then consider other components based on available funding later. If we
can’t yet fund your other components, we will designate the remaining
components as “approved but unfunded.” This allows us to award more
funding later. We include approved but unfunded components for public
health emergencies in all awards. These components are funded when a
disease outbreak or other public health emergency requires
additional funding.
Components 1, 2, and 3 are for activities related to core global health security
priorities. When funding is available, this NOFO will support activities for a
moderate (component 4) or a substantial (component 5) response to a
disease outbreak or other public health emergency.
The emergency components follow the same logic model, with identical
overarching strategies and activities.
Setting up components
You must set up your components in your application. While preparing your
application:
• Review the expectations for Year 1 activities in the strategies and
activities section.
• Group your activities under the anticipated components. Only include the
activities planned for Year 1.
◦ Component 1: Improve and strengthen the Nigerian National Public
Health Institute’s management capacity and public health functions
▪ Component 1 Ceiling: $1,000,000
◦ Component 2: Strengthen subnational capacities to implement the
Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) in Nigeria
▪ Component 2 Ceiling: $2,000,000
◦ Component 3: Strengthen national level capacities to implement the
GHSA in Nigeria
▪ Component 3 Ceiling: $2,000,000
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 7
◦ Component 4: Rapid small-scale response to infectious disease
outbreaks or other public health emergencies
▪ Component 4 Ceiling: $5,000,000
◦ Component 5: Rapid large-scale response to infectious disease
outbreaks or other public health emergencies
▪ Component 5 Ceiling: $10,000,000
For information on how to incorporate component funding into your
application, see the following sections:
• Budget narrative
• Component funding instructions for SF-424A
Local partner funding preference
This NOFO includes a funding preference for local partners. Your organization
will receive 15 extra points during the selection process if you both:
• Meet the local partner definition.
• Document your status as a local partner.
Eligibility
Statutory authority
This program is authorized under:
• Section 307 of the Public Health Service Act [42 USC 242].
• Section 301(a) [42 USC 241(a)] of the Public Health Service Act.
Eligible applicants
Only these types of organizations may apply.
• State governments.
• County governments.
• City or township governments.
• Special district governments.
• Independent school districts.
• Public and state-controlled institutions of higher education.
• Native American tribal governments (federally recognized).
• Public housing authorities and Indian housing authorities.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 8
• Native American tribal organizations, other than federally recognized
tribal governments.
• Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status, other than institutions of higher
education.
• Nonprofits without 501(c)(3) status, other than institutions of higher
education.
• Private institutions of higher education.
• For-profit organizations other than small businesses.
• Small businesses.
• Foreign or non-U.S. based entities.
Other required qualifying factors
Delivery location
You must conduct the project in Nigeria.
Responsiveness criteria
We will review your application to make sure it meets these requirements.
These are the basic requirements you must meet to move forward in the
competition. We won’t consider an application that:
• Is from an organization that doesn’t meet all eligibility criteria. See
requirements in Eligibility.
• Is submitted after the deadline.
• Proposes research activities. See the definition of research.
• Requests funding that exceeds the applicable Year 1 component ceilings
described in the Funding Strategy section.
• Exceeds the 30-page limit for the project narrative (see the Project
narrative section for what counts toward the page limit).
• Does not include all components.
• Is not in English.
• Includes a budget or budget narrative that uses a currency other than
U.S. dollars.
• Does not respond to or is outside the scope of this NOFO.
See the Application checklist to understand which elements of your
application are part of the responsiveness criteria.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 9
Application limits
You must follow these limits on the number of applications your organization
can submit.
Under this NOFO, you may submit only one application under your
organization’s UEI.
Cost sharing and matching funds
This program has no cost-sharing or matching funds requirement. We will not
consider cost-sharing fund contributions during your application review.
However, if you submit voluntary cost-sharing funds and we fund your
project, we will require you to report on these funds.
Post-award requirements
Before you apply, make sure you understand the requirements that come
with an award.
See Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award for information on regulations
that apply, reporting, and more.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 10
Agency priorities
Required alignment with CDC priorities
The recipient of this award must implement any funds awarded under this
NOFO to effectuate program goals or agency priorities in accordance with the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Priorities when authorized
(for a full description of the CDC Priorities, please follow the provided
hyperlink).
Funded activities must:
• Align with CDC’s core priorities by demonstrating a commitment to gold-
standard science, transparency, and evidence-based practices.
• Support CDC’s mission to protect Americans from infectious and chronic
diseases, strengthen public health systems, and advance innovation in
health data and infrastructure.
• Contribute to rapid, science-driven responses to health threats, promote
global health leadership, and adhere to principles of integrity,
accountability, and compliance with applicable laws and federal
priorities.
Consistent with CDC’s values, in carrying out any project funded under this
NOFO, the recipient must adhere to the following principles where consistent
with the authority and scope of the award and its activities:
• A commitment to gold-standard science and ensuring trust,
transparency, and credibility: To build trust and improve CDC’s ability to
lead during health crises, CDC will increase transparency, be more
accountable, and follow strict, gold-standard scientific practices that are
open, unbiased, and based on clear evidence.
• A commitment to global leadership: With staff in 63 countries and
supporting 20 more, CDC’s Global Health Center:
◦ Works to prevent disease and advance emergency response.
◦ Detect health threats early, sends response teams, trains health
workers, and provides personal protective equipment, vaccines, and
medicines.
◦ Test disease samples from around the world to prepare for flu and
other serious outbreaks.
◦ Has strengthened systems to better protect people at home and
abroad after the COVID-19 outbreak.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 11
• A commitment to ensuring rapid, evidence-based responses to crises:
During public health emergencies, ensuring rapid, science-driven
responses is critical to minimizing harm, maintaining public trust, and
restoring stability. To meet this goal, CDC must continue to strengthen its
emergency response systems by:
◦ Streamlining internal processes.
◦ Improving risk communication strategies.
◦ Ensuring that laboratory capacity is fully equipped and
tested—capable of rapidly developing and deploying scalable
diagnostics during crises.
◦ Embedding structures for real-time learning, independent after-
action reviews, and the application of lessons learned will ensure
that each crisis response is smarter, faster, and more effective than
the last.
• A commitment to vaccine safety and efficacy research: CDC will apply
“gold-standard” science to all of its vaccine safety and effectiveness
research. It will make vaccine data, research methods, and related
datasets publicly available through simple data use agreements to
improve transparency, accountability, and trust.
• A commitment to advancing our understanding of the causes of
autism spectrum disorder (ASD), neurodevelopmental disorders
(NDDs), and chronic disease: CDC conducts research and works with
partners to better understand the causes of autism spectrum disorder,
neurodevelopmental disorders, and chronic diseases. It will use new and
existing data to study the rise in these conditions, including the increase
in autism diagnoses from 1 in 150 to nearly 1 in 31 over the past 25
years.
• A commitment to modernizing public health infrastructure and
enhancing our approach to health data: CDC will modernize public
health infrastructure to create a faster, more efficient health system that
can detect and respond to outbreaks in real time. This effort includes:
◦ Replacing data silos with integrated systems.
◦ Using advanced technology.
◦ Strengthening partnerships with states to ensure shared
responsibility and strong local health data systems.
◦ Emphasizing collaboration across federal and state partners, resilient
and adaptable systems, and accountability for funded programs to
ensure they align with these priorities and federal requirements.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 12
• Conflicts of interest: CDC will not support funding programs with
conflicts of interest and ensure its work is based on transparent,
unbiased science.
• Immigration: CDC funds will not be used to support or encourage illegal
immigration, consistent with federal law.
• Protecting life and the family: CDC funds will not be used to support
elective abortions, consistent with the Hyde Amendment, and will
promote maternal health, the dignity of life, and strong families.
• Ending disorder on America’s streets: CDC will prioritize evidence-based
programs that reduce homelessness, drug use, and public disorder. It will
support comprehensive services for people with serious mental illness
and substance use disorder. CDC will not support housing first strategies,
harm-reduction or safe consumption sites, or related activities. To the
extent allowable by federal law, CDC intends to give priority to grantees
in States and municipalities that have laws and policies that support and
enforce CDC’s priorities.
• Gender ideology and protecting children [PDF]: CDC will not fund
medical interventions for minors seeking gender transition and will
define sex based on biological criteria.
• DEI: CDC will not support DEI initiatives based on group identity and
focus on merit-based, evidence-driven approaches to improve health
outcomes.
• Parental rights: CDC will support policies that protect parental authority,
promote transparency, and give parents greater control over their
children’s education.
The recipient must demonstrate ongoing compliance with the full description
and listing of CDC values and priorities, in all programs that are authorized to
advance them, through program design, implementation, reporting, and
evaluation.
Failure to meaningfully align funded activities with the applicable
requirements may result in corrective action, additional reporting
requirements, or other enforcement actions consistent with federal grant
regulations found at 2 CFR Part 200 and the terms and conditions of this
award. The full CDC Priorities Statement can be found here: Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Priorities.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 13
Program description
Background, overview, and related work
Nigeria faces infectious disease outbreaks each year, including cholera,
meningitis, Lassa fever, and yellow fever, alongside emerging threats like
diphtheria and mpox. Several factors combine to worsen these problems:
• Low healthcare funding.
• A growing population.
• Climate change.
• Loss of trained healthcare workers.
• Weak health infrastructure.
Nigeria established the NCDC in 2011 to better prepare for and respond to
epidemics by preventing, detecting, and controlling infectious diseases.
Theses NOFO activities aim to strengthen Nigeria’s 7-1-7 capacity. 7-1-7 is a
target and accountability metric for detecting, reporting, and responding to
disease outbreaks. It proposes to:
• Detect a suspected disease outbreak within 7 days of its emergence.
• Notify public health authorities and begin an investigation within 1 day
of detection.
• Put an effective response in place within 7 days of notification.
As of 2024, Nigeria allocated only 4.83% of its total annual budget to
healthcare, well below the 15% target set in the Abuja Declaration in 2001.
This funding level severely limits how well the Ministry of Health (MoH), NCDC,
other relevant ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs), and subnational
health authorities can operate. As a result, Nigeria is less able to respond to
public health threats.
Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa and sixth most populous in the
world with an estimated population of over 232 million. Its crowded cities,
busy international travel and trade, and frequent cross-border movement
make it easy for infectious diseases to spread rapidly.
Since 2014, CDC support for the GHSA in Nigeria has strengthened the
country’s capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to public health threats. In
June 2017, Nigeria scored 39% on its first JEE exercise, and received a “not
ready” rating. Following that result, Nigeria created the 2018-2023 National
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 14
Action Plan for Health Security, and by August 2023, its second JEE score had
improved to 54%.
This NOFO aims to partner with experienced organizations to strengthen
Nigeria’s health systems and capacity at the national and local levels. The goal
is to improve the country’s public health capacities in tandem with CDC’s
global health priorities. These NOFO activities align with gaps identified in the
recent JEE and will advance health capacity at all levels of government.
This NOFO builds on CDC-RFA-GH20-2098 and CDC-RFA-GH20-2126, which
supported the development of health systems, processes, and policies. Those
efforts helped improve Nigeria’s global public health capacities and its 2023
JEE score. This NOFO will continue to provide funding, staff, and technical
assistance to address any gaps identified in the 2023 JEE.
Public health priorities and strategies
Your funded activities must also align with CDC’s global health priorities.
These priorities guide how we build, carry out, and evaluate our global health
work. We use it to measure progress and impact and make informed
decisions about global health activities across CDC. The goals include:
• Stop health threats at their source before they spread to the United
States and other countries.
• Contain disruptive outbreaks of disease across the globe.
• Use global data to prevent and mitigate disease in the United States and
other countries.
• Save lives and improve health globally.
To make progress on these goals, we encourage you to:
• Strengthen national public health bulletins, health alert notices, CDC’s
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report and Health Alert Network, and
other emergency risk communication strategies.
• Share timely, credible, useful public health information with healthcare
and public health professionals locally and nationally within our
partner countries.
• Develop civil registration, vital statistics systems, and mortality
surveillance systems so our partner countries know what is causing
deaths in their population and whether interventions to reduce them
are working.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 15
• Additionally, the effectiveness of your work should be demonstrated in
results from timeliness analyses (like the 7-1-7 framework) for early
detection and response. For example, the 7-1-7 target provides a
standardized benchmark for evaluating the effectiveness of outbreak
detection and response systems globally. The framework outlines a
timeline to aim for in response to a suspected outbreak:
◦ Within 7 days of emergency: Detect the outbreak.
◦ Within 1 day of detection: Notify public health authorities and start
the investigation.
◦ Within 7 days of notification: Begin responding effectively to
the emergency.
• We also recommend using these supporting strategies and frameworks:
◦ CDC’s strategy for improving GHS, based on three core parts of the
agency’s mission to protect public health worldwide:
▪ Prevent.
▪ Detect.
▪ Respond.
◦ Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) framework.
◦ The Department of State America First Global Health Strategy.
◦ United States Global Health Security Strategy
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 16
Purpose
The purpose of this NOFO is to build upon previous CDC investments that
strengthen global public health capacities at national and subnational levels.
This includes program implementation, technical assistance, and mentorship
in the following areas:
• Laboratory systems.
• Workforce development.
• Surveillance and epidemiology.
• Emergency response and preparedness.
• Antimicrobial resistance.
• Biosafety and biosecurity.
• Zoonotic diseases.
• Infection prevention and control.
• Water sanitation and health.
• Public health evaluations.
• Points of entry.
• Humanitarian response.
• Risk communication.
• Others.
Approach
Program logic model
The following logic model includes the expected strategies under this NOFO.
The logic model also includes the program’s expected outcomes. Outcomes
are the results that you intend to achieve and usually show the intended
direction of change, such as increase or decrease.
The asterisked (*) outcomes are those we expect you to achieve or
substantially contribute to during the five-year period of performance. You
must report on these outcomes.
Not all outcomes apply to all strategies. The table shows how they apply. You
will use these outcomes as a guide for developing performance measures.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 17
Table: Strategies and outcomes
Strategies and
activities Short-term outcomes Intermediate
outcomes Long-term outcomes
Strategy 1:
Provide technical
assistance to build,
strengthen, and guide
the National Public
Health Institute
(NPHI), other relevant
national MDAs, sub-
national health
authorities, health
facilities and systems,
and public health
programs in
preparation for and in
response to public
health emergencies in
Nigeria.
Developed capacity in
epidemiology, disease
surveillance,
laboratory systems,
and across all relevant
GHSA technical areas
for timely detection
and response to
health threats in
Nigeria.*
A dedicated and
functional program
management unit is
available at the
NPHI.*
Prompt and accurate
identification of
priority diseases,
enabling timely
intervention and
response, per 7-1-7
metrics, in Nigeria.*
Improved
administrative and
business processes
for efficient
management of
donor funds and
enhanced stakeholder
confidence.*
Integrated and
harmonized
epidemiology and
laboratory data
systems with
improved data
quality, use, and
interoperability for
complete, accurate,
and timely
surveillance data to
guide preparedness
and response
activities in Nigeria.
Reduced morbidity
and mortality
attributed to disease
outbreaks or other
public health threats
in Nigeria.
Increased speed of
outbreak detection
and response for
diseases that threaten
global health security.
Strategy 2:
Train the public
health and
multisectoral
workforce from
relevant animal,
human, and
environmental
sectors in Nigeria to
build strategic skills,
enhance
collaboration, and
improve health
security through a
coordinated One
Health approach.
Skilled multisectoral
public health
workforce in place for
efficient mobilization
and deployment and
effective emergency
response efforts in
Nigeria.*
Institutionalized
trainings and capacity
building initiatives
across relevant
sectors for
strengthened health
systems and to lead
public health
emergency response
efforts in Nigeria.*
Strategy 3:
Strengthen public
health systems to
prepare for and
respond to public
Standardized tools
and systems are
available for
enhanced
preparedness, timely
Prompt and accurate
identification of
priority diseases,
enabling timely
intervention and
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 18
Strategies and
activities Short-term outcomes Intermediate
outcomes Long-term outcomes
health emergencies
and emerging disease
threats.
detection and
response to public
health emergencies
and threats in
Nigeria.*
response, per 7-1-7
metrics, in Nigeria.*
Standard processes,
resources, and
information are in
place to ensure
coordination,
characterization, and
reporting of disease
threats early in
Nigeria.*
Strategy 4:
Collaborate across
countries,
geographical regions,
and multilateral
organizations to
establish networks
and resources that
support public health
emergency response
coordination and
response support at
all levels of the health
system during times
of public health
emergencies.
Improved effective
communication and
coordinated
responses to public
health threats
through operational
information-sharing
platforms.
Heightened
surveillance and
health security at
Nigerian borders to
mitigate importation/
exportation of public
health threats.*
Increased effective
communication and
coordinated response
to public health
threats.*
Reduced spread of
infectious diseases
across national and
international
borders.*
Increased
collaboration among
regional and global
network for effective
response to public
health threats of
international concern.
Strategy 5:
Conduct assessments,
implementation
science, or both, to
monitor, evaluate,
and improve health
systems, national
institutes, and public
health programs.
Enhanced
understanding of best
practices and quality
improvement
initiatives by public
health professionals,
healthcare providers,
policymakers,
community leaders,
and researchers, for
public health
programming.*
Improved policy
decisions contributing
to a stronger evidence
base for decision-
making.*
Increased demand for
service delivery
programs in
community settings.*
Reduction in health
disparities and
promotion of health
equity in healthcare
and community
settings.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 19
Strategies and activities
This section elaborates on the strategies described in the logic model by
providing expected activities for Year 1 and details about how we expect you
to implement your program.
Following are strategies and the required and optional activities under this
NOFO. You may also propose additional related strategies and activities to
achieve the expected outcomes.
Strategy 1
Provide technical assistance to build, strengthen, and guide the NPHI,
other relevant national MDAs, sub-national health authorities, health
facilities and systems, and public health programs in preparation for and in
response to public health emergencies in Nigeria.
• Provide technical assistance to the NCDC to address gaps and
weaknesses identified in the 2023 JEE and in Nigeria’s most current
National Action Plan for Public Health Security (NAPHS).
• Provide technical assistance to develop NCDC’s competencies relevant to
the following technical areas to further build workforce capacity to
respond to current and future infectious disease threats:
• Laboratory systems.
• Human resource and workforce development - Field Epidemiology
Training Program (FETP).
• Human resources/workforce development - non-FETP.
• Surveillance.
• Emergency response operations/preparedness.
• Risk communication.
• Water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) (including combatting cholera).
• Infection prevention and control.
• Zoonotic diseases.
• Strengthen administrative and business processes at NCDC and improve
efficiency to ensure operational effectiveness.
• Support sub-national emergency preparedness and response (EPR)
committees by: running sub-national JEE evaluations; applying 7-1-7
metrics to monitor and track outbreak management performance;
developing after-action reviews (AARs) and the costed state action plan
for health security (SAPHS); promoting advocacy; and
mobilizing resources.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 20
• Strengthen the operational capacity of the NCDC’s sub-national support
department in alignment with relevant health security strategies and
recommendations of the JEE.
Strategy 2
Train the public health and multisectoral workforce from relevant animal,
human, and environmental sectors in Nigeria to build strategic skills,
enhance collaboration, and improve health security through a coordinated
One Health approach.
Train the public health workforce at national and sub-national levels in the
following technical areas to further build workforce capacity to respond to
current and future infectious disease threats:
• Epidemiology and surveillance.
• Laboratory systems.
• Emergency response operations/preparedness.
• Emergency management.
• Risk communication.
• Infection prevention and control.
• Zoonotic diseases.
• Data analysis.
• Data management.
• Biosafety and biosecurity.
Strategy 3
Strengthen public health systems to prepare for and respond to public
health emergencies and emerging disease threats.
• Implement activities to strengthen health systems capacities in affected
regions at both national and sub-national levels.
• Work closely with the NCDC, other relevant MDAs, and sub-national
health authorities to:
◦ Strengthen surveillance to ensure rapid identification of priority
infectious disease threats of human and zoonotic origin.
◦ Ensure that capacity-building efforts are a permanent part of the
organization to promote sustainability.
◦ Support and connect information management platforms (e.g.,
SORMAS, DHIS2, AVADAR, etc.) to allow for better data sharing in the
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 21
One
Health sector.
◦ Conduct multi-disciplinary, multi-hazard risk assessments to target
community interventions.
• Work closely with relevant national and subnational authorities to
strengthen surveillance systems at Points of Entry (POEs) to:
◦ Improve data analysis, interpretation, and dissemination capacity,
and make them standard at priority POEs to support real-time
decision making.
◦ Roll out electronic disease surveillance information systems, such as
SORMAS, and digitize reporting at POEs.
• In collaboration with NCDC, other MDAs, sub-national health authorities,
PEPFAR, Global Fund, and other partners, strengthen laboratory systems
to enhance disease detection by:
◦ Creating a leveled network of public health laboratories, including
laboratory infrastructure upgrades and more staff hires.
◦ Putting in place integrated disease testing and surveillance (IDTS)
that focuses on next generation sequencing of priority pathogens of
public health importance.
◦ Establishing an integrated sample referral system to improve access
to laboratory diagnostic services and reduce test result turn-around-
time of priority diseases.
◦ Implementing a laboratory quality management system.
◦ Developing laboratory biosafety and biosecurity systems, including
standards and policies to implement bio-risk management following
international best practices.
◦ Enhancing the laboratory commodities logistics management system
for early disease detection, outbreak preparedness, and response.
◦ Integrating laboratory information management systems with
national surveillance data management systems, such as SORMAS,
for enhanced integrated disease testing and laboratory-based
disease surveillance.
◦ Building public health laboratory leadership and management
capacity to develop enough laboratory experts with the necessary
managerial and leadership skills essential for a changing public
health laboratories network.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 22
◦ Enhancing laboratory capacity for accurate and timely diagnostics of
pathogens of zoonotic origin and facilitating collaboration between
laboratories to share best practices and resources.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 23
• Applying innovative approaches to strengthen key public health
laboratory systems, including but not limited to the following in the
implementation of the systems interventions noted previously:
◦ Partnership with NCDC, Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), State
Ministry of Health (SMOH), bilateral and multilateral donors,
laboratory regulatory bodies, laboratory professional associations,
and host communities, including the private sector.
◦ Resource coordination across U.S. Government (USG)-funded
programs, including the CDC, as well as previous and ongoing
investment by GoN and key donors and programs for laboratory
systems strengthening, including the private sector.
◦ Host government and communities’ ownership and leadership of
public health laboratories systems strengthening.
• Strengthen and put in place emergency response/preparedness
operations and emergency management.
• Strengthen risk communication, social mobilization, and community
engagement to enhance awareness and gather community support,
acceptance, and participation in containment measures and
risk reduction.
• Improve national- and facility-level infection prevention and control
programs, guidelines, policies, and protocols including developing and
implementing strategies for surveillance and healthcare-associated
infection (HAI) prevention.
• Establish a reliable, accurate, and effective laboratory surveillance
network for antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in Nigerian public
health facilities.
• Build national and subnational capacity to prepare for and respond to
humanitarian emergencies, including coordination, data collection, and
early warning surveillance in following the humanitarian frameworks,
guidelines, and policies.
• Develop emergency logistics and supply chain management systems for
response and non-response periods that include procurement and
storage at national and subnational levels for activation during a public
health emergency.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 24
Strategy 4
Collaborate across countries, geographical regions, and multilateral
organizations to establish networks and resources that support public
health emergency response coordination and response support at all
levels of the health system during times of public
health emergencies.
• Strengthen government and stakeholder networks that promote disease
coordination across West Africa, including academia and civil societies.
• Identify approaches to streamline build on and deploy stakeholder
resources to enhance coordination efforts through public health
emergency preparedness and response. This should also include staffing,
regional rapid response teams (RRT) /SURGE, data sharing, capacity
transfer among countries, and a plan for standardizing Public Health
Intelligence (PHI) for epidemic management at national public health
emergency operation centers (PHEOCs).
• Build on the Regional Integrated Surveillance and Laboratory Network
(RISLNET) to improve disease detection and response in the West African
region, including continuous surveillance for priority pathogens.
Strategy 5
Conduct assessments, implementation science, or both to monitor,
evaluate, and improve health systems, national institutes, and public
health programs.
• Execute NCDC’s implementation science and research strategic agenda.
• Strengthen communication and scientific writing capacity of the NCDC
staff.
• Conduct special investigations and public health evaluations.
• Improve monitoring and evaluation (M&E) processes and methods to
show impact and effectiveness, including the rollout of an NCDC M&E
framework to align with the organizational blueprint/roadmap.
• Conduct laboratory-based public health operational research, product
development and evaluation, and continuous laboratory program
management quality improvement.
We expect you to provide copies of and/or access to all data, software, tools,
training materials, guidelines, and systems you develop under this NOFO to
the Ministry of Health, CDC, and other relevant stakeholders for appropriate
use consistent with underlying authorities.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 25
Related guidance
Your activities under this project should follow CDC’s global health priorities.
You might also be asked to follow other strategies, guidance, or planning
documents that are released later.
Geographic focus
If the program or GHS priorities change during the period of performance,
you may be asked to change the geographic area of your activities.
Outcomes
We expect you to achieve or substantially contribute to the outcomes
asterisked ( * ) in the logic model by the end of the five-year period of
performance. You will be expected to report on these outcomes.
Organizational capacity
You must include a heading in your project narrative titled “Organizational
capacity.” In this section, briefly describe your organizational capacity to carry
out these strategies and activities.
You must also provide supporting documentation in your attachments. See
the attachments section for full instructions.
Collaborations
If funded, we will expect you to collaborate with other CDC implementing
partners, including non-governmental organizations, universities, the MoH
and other host governmental bodies, and multi-lateral organizations that
receive CDC funds. Make sure your proposed activities do not duplicate work
that the CDC is already funding through other organizations.
You will work primarily and directly with partner governments, specifically
with the MoH and other government entities. In addition, you will work with
other in-country stakeholders and global partners, including other
government entities, non-governmental organizations, universities, civil
society, the private sector, and other USG agencies.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 26
Data, monitoring, and evaluation
CDC strategy
CDC collects and reports on indicators to measure progress toward achieving
the activities and outcomes. CDC will also use results for program planning,
improvement, accountability, and reporting. CDC will share the results with
key parties.
CDC will work with you throughout the life of this award to ensure that all
activities and expected outcomes align with your strategies and goals, and
those of the U.S. government.
Your strategies and goals will be monitored and evaluated. You should
dedicate some of the NOFO’s funds to evaluate and monitor the performance
of your project. You and CDC will agree on the final funding amount, but we
expect that you will dedicate approximately 5 to 10% of your project’s funding
to monitoring, reporting, and evaluation activities.
Required performance measures
While completing your work plan, identify indicators within the partner-level
indicator list that best align with your proposed activities for each component.
You can find the separate list within the application package on Grants.gov.
These indicators are your performance measures. You will also include these
indicators in your initial evaluation and performance measurement plan
(EPMP). If awarded, we will work with you to finalize the partner-level
indicators that will best measure your funded strategies and activities. We will
provide a more detailed description of the indicators when you are awarded.
You will report on your performance measures in the annual progress report.
While you will be responsible for reporting on your partner-level indicators,
you can use additional indicators to assess your program. You’re encouraged
to propose additional relevant indicators that you will monitor over the
course of the project.
Evaluation and performance measurement plan
You must submit an initial draft of your EPMP plan with your application. In
your EPMP, you will identify which of the partner-level indicators you plan to
report on in your annual performance report). These indicators will be
finalized with CDC.
You must submit a more detailed plan within the first six months of the
award. See Reporting.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 27
Be sure to align your evaluation and performance measurement plan with
host country, agency, and program requirements and priorities.
Include the following elements in your evaluation and performance
measurement plan.
Methods
Describe how you will:
• Collect the performance measures.
• Respond to the evaluation topics.
• Use evaluation findings for continuous program quality improvement.
• Incorporate evaluation and performance measurement into planning,
implementing, and reporting project activities.
Additionally, explain:
• How key program partners will participate in the evaluation and
performance measurement process.
• How feasible it will be to collect appropriate evaluation and
performance data.
• How you will share evaluation findings with communities
and stakeholders.
• Other relevant information, such as performance measures you propose.
Data management plan
For all public health data you plan to collect, you must have a data
management plan (DMP). For a definition of “public health data” and more
information about CDC’s policy on the DMP, see Data Management and
Access.
You must submit an initial draft of your DMP with your application. You will
submit a more detailed plan within the first six months of the award.
See Reporting.
Submit your DMP with your application and include:
• The data you will collect or generate, and what its sources will be.
• Who can access the data and how you will protect and secure it.
• Data standards that explain what documentation the released data will
have. Documentation should describe collection methods, what the data
represents, and data limitations.
• Archival and long-term data preservation plans.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 28
• Any reasons why you cannot share data collected or generated under
this award with CDC. These could include legal, regulatory, policy, or
technical reasons.
• How you will update the DMP as new information becomes available over
the life of the project. You will provide updates to the DMP in
annual reports.
In addition to the other requirements listed, also include:
• Cybersecurity plans.
• How you will protect personally identifiable information (PII) when you
collect, store, transfer, and use this data.
• How you will remove information from the data that could reveal
participants’ identities (de-identify the data) in intermediate and final
data sets.
CDC will inform you of data you need to share with us and how and when it
should be shared.
Evaluation activities
You must carry out at least one evaluation for each cooperative agreement
during your funding. The evaluation can be one of these:
• A process evaluation, which measures:
◦ How you delivered the services.
◦ What worked and what did not.
◦ The differences between who you intended to serve and who you
actually served.
◦ Who could access your services.
• An outcome evaluation, which measures how the intervention affected
changes in knowledge, attitudes, or behavior.
• An economic evaluation, which measures:
◦ How much the intervention cost.
◦ What caused these costs.
◦ Cost effectiveness.
◦ Efficiency.
◦ The economic impact of the intervention.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 29
Describe:
• The type of evaluations (process, outcome, and/or economic).
• Key evaluation questions these evaluations will address.
• Other information, such as measures and data sources.
Work plan
You must provide a work plan for each component for your project. For each
component, provide a detailed work plan for the first year and a high-level
work plan for later years. The work plan connects your performance
outcomes, strategies and activities, and measures. It provides more detail on
how you will measure outcomes and processes. A sample work plan is
provided below.
Table: Sample format
Activities you
will implement
Progress or
process
measures from
the Data,
monitoring, and
evaluation
section
Relevant period
of performance
outcomes from
the Outcomes
section
Responsible
position or
party
Completion
date
Strategy 1:
1.
2.
3.
Strategy 2:
1.
2.
3.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 30
Paperwork Reduction Act
Any activities involving information collection from 10 or more individuals or
organizations may require Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) approval. The PRA
requires review and approval of the information collection by the White
House Office of Management and Budget (OMB). For further information to
determine if a proposed activity requires PRA approval, contact your
project officer.
Collections include items like surveys and questionnaires. If you have
collections requiring PRA approval, CDC is responsible for working with OMB
to gain the approval.
For more information about CDC’s requirements under PRA see CDC
Paperwork Reduction Act Compliance.
Dissemination of evaluation results
By the end of the period of performance, your evaluation and performance
measures will yield findings to demonstrate the value of your projects. You
will disseminate these findings through the Annual Performance Report (APR).
You are expected to pursue additional dissemination in public domains and
through informal channels. Dissemination channels could include:
• Local and international conferences and forum abstract presentations.
• Conference poster displays.
• Public health and global health journals.
• Manuscripts.
• Bulletins.
• Reports.
• Presentations to technical working groups and stakeholder meetings.
• Other approved products in print and electronic media, including
websites and newsletters.
Program interest holders will be the primary intended users of your
evaluation results and findings.
CDC and interest holders will use your evaluation findings during the five-year
project period to share and implement key recommendations to strengthen
program implementation, effectiveness, sustainability, and continued
improvement after the award ends.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 31
Funding policies and limitations
Changes in HHS regulations
As of October 1, 2025, HHS has adopted 2 CFR 200, with some exceptions
included in 2 CFR 300. These regulations replace those in 45 CFR 75. You can
find details in HHS Summary of Regulatory Changes, which is posted in the
Grants.gov Related Documents tab for this opportunity.
General guidance
All activities proposed in your application and budget narrative must align
with applicable law, including but not limited to statutes, executive orders,
federal regulations and applicable judicial holdings. Accordingly, discretionary
awards shall not be used to fund, promote, encourage, subsidize, or facilitate;
racial preferences or other forms of racial discrimination by the recipient,
including activities where race or intentional proxies for race will be used as a
selection criterion for employment or program participation; denial by the
recipient of the sex binary in humans, or the belief that sex is a chosen or
mutable characteristic; illegal immigration; or any other initiatives that
compromise public safety. If an application does not align, the application will
not receive funding to the extent permitted by law and applicable
court orders.
• Your budget is arranged in eight categories: salaries and wages, fringe
benefits, travel, equipment, supplies, contractual, other (includes
consultant costs), and indirect costs.
• You may use funds only for reasonable program purposes consistent
with the award, its terms and conditions, and federal laws and
regulations that apply to the award. If you have questions about this
determination, ask the grants management officer.
• Generally, you may not use funds to purchase furniture or equipment.
Clearly identify and justify any such proposed spending in the budget.
• All requests for funds contained in the budget should be stated in
U.S. dollars.
• Cost increases due to changes in exchange rates are allowed if enough
funding is available. If an increase in the exchange rate would reduce the
scope of the project or cause you to need more federal funding, you
must get prior approval for exchange rate fluctuations.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 32
• Support beyond the first budget year will depend on:
◦ Appropriation of funds.
◦ Satisfactory progress in meeting your project’s objectives.
◦ A decision that continued funding is in the government’s
best interest.
• If we receive more funding for this program, we will consider:
◦ Funding more applicants.
◦ Extending the period of performance.
◦ Awarding supplemental funding.
See also program-specific limitations.
Unallowable costs
You may not use funds for:
• Research.
• Clinical care, except as allowed by law.
• Pre-award costs, unless we give you prior written approval.
• Other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships:
◦ Publicity or propaganda purposes, including preparing, distributing,
or using any material designed to support or defeat the enactment
of legislation before any legislative body.
◦ The salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, or agent
acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to influence
the enactment of legislation, appropriations, regulation,
administrative action, or executive order proposed or pending
before any legislative body.
◦ See Anti-Lobbying Restrictions for CDC Recipients [PDF].
• For guidance on some types of costs that we restrict or do not allow, see
2 CFR Part 200 Subpart E - General Provisions for Selected Items of Cost.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 33
Indirect costs
Indirect costs are those shared across multiple projects and not easily
separated. Learn more at CDC Budget Preparation Guidelines [PDF].
To charge indirect costs you can select one of two methods:
Method 1 — Approved rate. If you currently have an indirect cost rate
approved by your cognizant federal agency, you may use that rate.
Enclose a copy of the current approved rate agreement in your attachments.
Method 2 —
De minimis rate. If do not have a current negotiated indirect
cost rate, you may elect to charge a
de minimis rate (see 2 CFR 200.414(f)). If
you choose this method, costs included in the indirect cost pool must not be
charged as direct costs. This rate is 15% of modified total direct costs (MTDC).
See the definition of MTDC (2 CFR 200.1). You can use this
rate indefinitely.
Foreign organizations and foreign public entities
Indirect costs on awards to foreign organizations and foreign public entities
performed fully outside of the U.S. and its territories may be paid to support
the costs of complying with federal requirements.
This rate is fixed at 8% of MTDC exclusive of tuition and related fees, direct
expenditures for equipment, and subawards in excess of $25,000.
Negotiated indirect costs may be paid to the American University, Beirut, and
the World Health Organization.
See 2 CFR § 300.414.
Other indirect cost policies
As described in 2 CFR 200.403(d), you must consistently charge items as
either indirect or direct costs and may not double charge.
Indirect costs may include the cost of collecting, managing, sharing, and
preserving data.
Salary rate limitation
The salary rate limitation in the current appropriations act applies to this
program. As of January 2026, the salary rate limitation is $228,000. We will
update this limitation in future years.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 34
Program income
If you earn any money from your award-supported project activities (known
as program income), you must use it for the purposes and under the
conditions of the award. Find more about program income at 2 CFR 200.307.
Program-specific limitations
Human and animal subjects restriction
CDC requires you to use protocols for technical review and for review of your
institutional plans to protect human or animal subjects if you plan to create
public reports based on:
• Collecting data from people, animals, or personal records.
• Collecting and testing laboratory specimens.
We will not provide funds to implement these activities until you have
obtained all necessary approvals of your institutional protocols. We may
provide funds for preparatory activities (such as protocol development,
training, equipment, reagents, and site preparation) before protocol approval.
To make sure you have funds available, your budget and narrative should
indicate which activities are preparatory.
You must submit data collection protocols required for the release of these
funding restrictions to the CDC Global Health Center, Division of Global
Health Protection (DGHP) Science Office within six months of being notified of
these restrictions. You must submit these protocols by the end of the first
budget year at the latest. You can submit requests for exceptions to these
deadlines in writing to the project officer.
You should obtain all protocol approvals by the end of the next budget period
after the award or continuation has been made, unless you have received
an exception.
Host country laws and regulations
If funded, we expect you to follow applicable host country laws and
regulations related to the strategies under this NOFO. If there are conflicts
with this award, contact the grants management officer.
Program income prior approval
If you earn any money from your award-supported project activities (known
as program income), you must use it for the purposes and under the
conditions of the award. Find more about program income at 2 CFR 200.307.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 35
Expanded authority
For more information on expanded authority and pre-award costs, see the
HHS Grants Policy Statement and speak to the grants management contact.
Pre-award costs may be allowable as an expanded authority, but only if we
authorize the costs.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 36
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 2:
Get Ready to Apply
In this step
Get registered 38
Find the application package 39
Help applying 39
Need help? See Contacts and Support.
Get registered
You must be registered in both SAM.gov and GrantSolutions to apply. You can
review the requirements and get started on developing your application
before your registrations are complete.
SAM.gov
You must have an active account with SAM.gov to apply. SAM.gov registration
can take several weeks. Begin that process today.
To register:
• Go to SAM.gov Entity Registration and select Get Started. From the same
page, you can also select the Entity Registration Checklist for the
information you will need to register.
• You must agree to the financial assistance general certifications and
representations [PDF] specifically. Those for contracts are different.
When you register, you will also receive your required Unique Entity
Identifier (UEI).
Once you register:
• You will have to maintain your registration throughout the life of any
award.
• If your organization has multiple UEIs, use the one associated with your
physical location.
Grants.gov
You must also have an active account with Grants.gov. You can see step-by-
step instructions at the Grants.gov Quick Start Guide for Applicants.
Need help? See Contacts and Support.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 2: Get Ready to Apply 38
Find the application
package
You can find it online. Go to Grants Search at Grants.gov and search for
opportunity number CDC-RFA-JG-26-0043. After opening the opportunity,
select the “package” tab to see the forms.
We recommend that you select the Subscribe button from the View Grant
Opportunity page for this NOFO to get updates.
If you can’t use Grants.gov to download application materials or have other
technical difficulties, including issues with application submission, contact
Grants.gov for assistance.
Help applying
For help related to the application process and tips for preparing your
application, see How to Apply on our website. For other questions, see
Contacts and Support.
Questions
If you have questions, you must submit them by email to dghpnofos@cdc.gov
no later than 5 calendar days after the NOFO is published to Grants.gov. We
will not respond to questions received later.
We will post answers to questions in a Q&A document in the Grants.gov
application package.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 2: Get Ready to Apply 39
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3:
Build Your Application
In this step
Application checklist 41
Application contents and format 43
Application checklist
This checklist includes every item, attachment, and form you will need to
submit a complete application:
Narratives
◻ Item Grants.gov form Page limit Responsiveness
factor?
Project summary Project Abstract Summary form 1 page No
Project narrative Project Narrative Attachment form Up to 30
pages
Yes
Budget narrative Budget Narrative Attachment form None Yes
Attachments
Put all of your attachments into a single Other Attachments form.
Attachments Page limit Responsiveness
factor?
Table of contents None No
Experience statement None No
Financial capability statement None No
Resumes and job descriptions None No
Organizational chart None No
Indirect cost agreement (if applicable) None No
Report on overlap None No
Other documentation (optional) None No
Local partner funding preference (required if applying for the
funding preference)
None No
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 41
Other required forms
Other forms Grants.gov form Responsiveness
factor?
Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424) Form SF-424 No
Budget Information for Non-Construction
Programs (SF-424A)
Form SF-424A No
Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL) (if
applicable)
Form SF-LLL No
See submission and deadlines to see if there are other requirements beyond
the application itself.
See responsiveness criteria to understand how they affect your application.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 42
Application contents
and format
Applications include narratives, attachments, and other required forms. This
section includes guidance on each.
All your application materials must be in English. Express currency in
U.S. dollars.
Your organization’s authorized official must certify your application.
We will provide instructions on document formats in the following sections. If
you don’t provide the required documents, your application is incomplete.
See responsiveness criteria and initial review to understand how this affects
your application.
Required format
Required format for project summary, project narrative, and budget narrative.
File format: PDF
Size: 12-point font
Footnotes and text in graphics, tables, and charts may be 10-point.
Ink color: Black
Spacing: Single-spaced
Margins: 1-inch
Include page numbers.
These formatting requirements do not apply to any scanned or photocopied
materials inserted into your application.
Project summary
Page limit: 1
File name: Project summary
Provide a self-contained summary of your proposed project, including the
purpose and outcomes. Do not include any proprietary or confidential
information. We use this information when we receive public information
requests about funded projects.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 43
Project narrative
Page limit: 30
File name: Project narrative
Your project narrative must use the exact headings, subheadings, and order
that follow.
Evaluation criterion Scoring
Background and approach 40 points section total
Evaluation and performance measurement plan 25 points section total
Organizational capacity 35 points section total
Due to multiple components, the project narrative will allow a maximum of 30
pages, single spaced, 12-point font, 1-inch margins, and should have all pages
numbered. The appendices will not be counted toward the project narrative
page limit. The total amount of appendices must not exceed 50 pages. Any
pages after page 50 of the appendix will not be considered for review.
You may include the following items in your project narrative file, but they are
not required and do not count toward the 30-page limit:
• Cover or title page.
• Table of contents. (Note that a table of contents is required in your
attachments.)
• Nondisclosure statement, if applicable to your organization.
• Acronym list.
Everything else you include in the project narrative file will count toward the
30-page limit.
If a formatting problem makes your file longer than 30 pages, we will consider
your application nonresponsive. It is your responsibility to check for
formatting issues.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 44
Background and approach (40 points)
Describe the problem you plan to address. Be specific to your population and
geographic area.
See the background overview and related work section of the program
description.
Table: Scoring criteria
Reviewers will evaluate the extent to which the applicant provides: Point value
A clear and concise understanding of the current public health problem and the
conditions related to the targeted programmatic areas.
15 points
Evidence-based, realistic, achievable, measurable, and culturally appropriate activities
that meet this NOFO’s objectives in the different operating environments and
challenges of the Nigerian health system.
15 points
A proposal to build on and support the current national program response. 10 points
Evaluation and performance
measurement plan (25 points)
You must provide an evaluation and performance measurement plan. This
plan describes how you will fulfill the requirements in the data, monitoring,
and evaluation section of the program description.
Table: Scoring criteria
Reviewers will evaluate the extent to which the applicant provides: Point value
Performance measures (indicators) for each program activity and each outcome over
the period of performance.
15 points
An evaluation and performance measurement plan (EPMP) which addresses
performance indicators, reporting frequency, effects on target populations, how
evaluation findings show NOFO’s value, and how results will be shared.
10 points
Data management plan
You must provide an initial data management plan describing how you will
fulfill the requirements in the data management plan section of the
program description.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 45
Organizational capacity (35 points)
Briefly describe how you will address the requirements in the organizational
capacity section of the program description. You will provide the required
attachments in a separate file.
Collaborations
Describe how you will collaborate with programs and organizations, either
internal or external to CDC. Explain how you will address the requirements in
the collaborations section of the program description.
You must provide these attachments to support this section:
• Experience statement.
• Financial capability statement.
• Resumes and job descriptions.
• Organizational chart.
Table: Scoring criteria
Reviewers will evaluate the extent to which the applicant provides: Point value
Local experience, qualified staff, appropriate technical expertise, and institutional
capacity in carrying out public health activities in Nigeria.
10 points
Experience and ability to coordinate with and build capacity of MoH, NCDC, and other
host government agencies.
10 points
A description of their ability to work with the host government to carry out program
activities.
5 points
An efficient business system in place to manage USG funds. 10 points
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 46
Budget narrative
Page limit: None
File name: Budget narrative
The budget narrative supports the information you provide in Standard Form
424-A. See other required forms. You must state all amounts in U.S. dollars.
As you develop your budget, consider if the costs are reasonable and
consistent with your project’s purpose and activities. We will review your
budget and approve costs prior to award.
The budget narrative must explain and justify the costs in your budget.
Explain how you calculate costs.
Your budget narrative must follow this format:
• Salaries and wages.
• Fringe benefits.
• Consultant costs.
• Equipment.
• Supplies.
• Travel.
• Other categories.
• Contractual costs.
• Total direct costs (total of all items).
• Total indirect costs.
See funding policies and limitations for policies you must follow.
Table: Budget criteria (not scored)
Reviewers will evaluate the extent to which the applicant provides: Point value
The budget is itemized, justified, reasonable, and consistent with NOFO objectives,
planned program activities, and GHS goals.
Not scored
Component funding requirements
In your SF-424A form, you will separate your component budget using the
“grant program, function, or activity” sections.
In a single document, provide a separate budget narrative for each
component you propose. Separate them with clear headings.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 47
See also the component funding instructions for form SF-424A.
Local partner funding preference
For this NOFO, we will add 15 points to applications that meet the local
partner funding preference. To meet this preference, the prime applicant
organization must currently meet one of the definitions of a local partner in
the country, region, or subregion served by this NOFO. You will not get points
for partially meeting the definition.
Local partner definition
The definitions of local partners are as follows.
Individuals (sole proprietorships)
An individual must be a citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident of the
country or subregion. Their primary residence and business must be in the
country or subregion.
A sole proprietorship must be owned by a person who meets this definition.
Entities
An entity is an organization other than a sole proprietorship. This might be a
corporation or nonprofit organization. Your organization must meet all three
of these criteria:
• Criterion 1: Your organization must be either of the following:
◦ Incorporated or legally organized under the laws of the country, and
have its principal place of business in this country.
◦ Located in the subregion served under this NOFO.
• Criterion 2: Your organization must meet either of the following:
◦ When you apply, it is at least 75% beneficially owned by citizens or
lawfully admitted permanent residents of the country served under
this NOFO.
◦ When you apply, at least 75% of the entity’s senior, mid-level, or
support staff are citizens or lawfully admitted permanent residents
of the country.
• Criterion 3: If your organization has a board of directors, at least 51% of
the members must be citizens or lawfully admitted permanent residents
of the country.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 48
Government ministries and parastatals
These are government ministries like ministries of health, subunits of
government ministries, and parastatal organizations.
Parastatal organizations may be fully or partially owned or funded by the
government. They may have a board of directors.
Regions and subregion definition
A region is one of the 2020 State Department/ForeignAssistance.gov
groupings, such as Southern Africa, Central Africa, or Central America.
Applying this preference
If you want to be considered for this preference, include documentation in
your attachments.
After the merit review, we will review this attachment to determine whether
you meet this preference. If so, we will add 15 points.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 49
Attachments
You will upload attachments in Grant.gov using a single Other Attachments
form. When adding the attachments to the form, you can upload PDF, Word,
or Excel documents.
Page limit: Provide only the information you need to respond to each
requirement. Combined, the attachments may not be more than 50 pages.
We provide this page limit to ensure you have adequate space to meet all
requirements; however, we don’t expect you to need the full 50 pages.
Table of contents
Required.
File name: Table of contents
Provide a detailed table of contents for your entire submission that includes
all the documents in the application and all the headings in the project
narrative section. There is no page limit.
Financial capability statement
Required.
File name: Financial capability statement
Describe your:
• Systems and procedures in place to manage donor and
organizational funds.
• Procurement processes and systems.
• Previous experience and capacity to manage budgets greater
than $500,000.
Experience statement
Required.
File name: Experience statement
Provide an experience statement that demonstrates your organization’s
capacity to address the requirements of the NOFO, specifically in the
following areas:
• The GHSA.
• Emergency operations and coordination.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 50
• Experience in surveillance information systems and laboratory
systems strengthening.
• Experience working with NPHIs and other MDAs in the One Health sector
in Nigeria.
• Experience working with subnational health authorities.
• Experience working with the USG.
Resumes and job descriptions
Required.
File name: Resumes and job descriptions
For key personnel, attach resumes and job descriptions for positions that are
filled. If a position isn’t filled, attach the job description with qualifications and
plans to hire. Key personnel must include the principal investigator, business
official, project director, and other key technical experts.
Organizational chart
Required.
File name: Organizational chart
Provide an organizational chart that describes your structure. Include any
relevant information to help us understand how parts of your structure apply
to your proposed project.
Indirect cost agreement
Required if applicable.
File name: Indirect cost agreement
If you include indirect costs in your budget using an approved rate, include a
copy of your current agreement approved by your cognizant agency for
indirect costs. If you use the
de minimis rate, you do not need to submit this
attachment.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 51
Report on overlap
Required if applicable.
File name: Report on overlap
You must provide this attachment only if you have submitted a similar
request for a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract to another funding
source in the same fiscal year and that request may result in any of the
following types of overlap.
Programmatic
• They are substantially the same project.
• A specific objective and the project design for accomplishing it are the
same or closely related.
Budgetary
You request duplicate or equivalent budget items that already are funded by
another source or requested in the other submission.
Commitment
Given all current and potential funding sources, an individual’s time
commitment exceeds 100%, which is not allowed.
We will discuss the overlap with you and resolve the issue before award.
Other documentation
Optional.
You may include any additional materials that are important to support
your application.
Local partner funding preference
Required if applying for the funding preference.
Not included in the 50-page limit.
File name: Local partner preference
If you would like to be considered for the local partner funding preference,
include this attachment. We recommend putting all information in one PDF
file, but this is not required. Include:
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 52
• A letter on your organization’s official letterhead, from your
organization’s authorized representative, that describes which of the
local partner definitions you meet and how you meet it. Refer to the
documentation you provide (see next bullet).
• Documentation that supports the claims in your letter. If it is not in
English, describe its contents in the letter.
Instructions by type of local partner
Individuals (sole proprietors)
The sole proprietor must sign the letter. Provide evidence that you own the
business, and where the business is located. This evidence could be a
certificate of registration, organization, or incorporation in the country, or
contact information including physical address.
Entities
Your organization’s authorized official must sign the letter. Clearly explain
how your organization meets the entity definition, and provide evidence.
You must include:
• Official documentation from a government organization showing that the
organization is incorporated or legally organized in the country or
subregion, and the principal place of business.
• A list of the officers or owners and:
◦ Their titles and roles.
◦ Their statuses as citizens or permanent residents.
◦ The percentage of full-time staff who are citizens or permanent
residents of the country.
◦ A list of the members of the board of directors, including each
member’s name and whether they are a citizen or permanent
resident in the country. If your organization does not have a board of
directors, state this in your letter.
◦ A statement that at least 51% of the board members are citizens or
permanent residents.
Government ministries and parastatals
The project director or principal investigator must sign the letter.
Show the organization’s relationship with the government. This could be
through an organizational chart, legislation, statute, or charter.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 53
Describe how the organization is a partner government ministry, subunit of a
government ministry, or parastatal organization in the country (an
organization partly or fully owned by the government). Describe the
government’s ownership of the organization.
Other required forms
You will need to complete some other forms. You will use the forms in
Grants.gov. You can find them in the NOFO application package or review
them and their instructions at Grants.gov Forms.
Table: Required standard forms
Forms Submission requirement
Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424) With the application.
Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs
(SF-424A)
With the application.
Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL) If applicable, with the application or
before award.
Component funding instructions for SF-424A
When completing your SF-424A, you will enter each component you propose
in the “grant program, function, or activity” sections. The form allows for only
four components.
If you are proposing more than four components, you must submit two
SF-424A forms. You can upload the second form under Other Attachments
form.
Important: Public information
When filling out your SF-424 form, pay attention to Box 15: Descriptive Title of
Applicant’s Project.
We share what you put there with USAspending. This is where the public goes
to learn how the federal government spends their money.
Instead of just a title, insert a short description of your project and what it
will do.
See instructions and examples [PDF].
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3: Build Your Application 54
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 4:
Understand Review, Selection,
and Award
In this step
Application Review 56
Award notices 58
Application Review
Initial review
We will review your application to make sure that it meets the responsiveness
criteria. If your application does not meet these criteria, we will not move it to
the merit review phase.
We will not review any pages over the page limit.
Scoring process
A panel will review your application that passes the initial review. They use
the criteria outlined in Step 3: Build Your Application.
Merit reviewers will score each application, and then we will rank them by
score.
Table: Criteria and total points
Criterion Total number of
points = 100
Background and approach 40 points
Evaluation and performance measurement plan 25 points
Organizational capacity 35 points
Risk review
Before making an award, we review the risk that you will not prudently
manage federal funds. We need to make sure you’ve handled any past federal
awards well and demonstrated sound business practices.
We use SAM.gov Responsibility / Qualification to check this history for all
awards likely to be over $250,000. We also check Exclusions. You can
comment on your organization’s information in SAM.gov. We’ll consider your
comments before making a decision about your level of risk.
We may ask for additional information prior to award based on the results of
the risk review.
If we find a significant risk, we may choose not to fund your application or to
place specific conditions on the award.
For more details, see 2 CFR 200.206.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 4: Understand Review, Selection, and Award 56
Selection process
We will fund applications in order by the rank that the review
panel determines.
When making funding decisions, we consider:
• Merit review results. These are key in making decisions but are not the
only factor. We may fund applications out of the merit review order.
• If multiple applications have the same score, we will:
◦ Re-review the tied applications.
◦ Move up the application with the highest score for its background
and approach.
◦ Move up the application with the highest score for its evaluation and
performance measurement plan.
◦ Move up the application with the highest score for its
organizational capacity.
• We reserve the right to fund applications out of rank order to:
◦ Avoid duplicating activities with other CDC programs.
◦ Accommodate the funding preferences stated in this NOFO.
◦ Accommodate an unforeseen public health emergency.
◦ Align with available funds at the time of award.
◦ Ensure that GHS activities cover as many areas as possible.
◦ Promote the activities and priorities of the awarding program.
• If we award a grant based on false or misrepresented information, or if a
recipient does not comply with the terms and conditions of the award,
we may take any necessary and appropriate action with the respect of
the recipient or the award, up to termination.
We may:
• Fund applications in whole or in part.
• Fund applications at a lower amount than requested.
• Decide not to allow a prime recipient to subaward if they may not be able
to monitor and manage subrecipients properly.
• Fund no applications under this NOFO.
Our ability to make awards depends on available appropriations.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 4: Understand Review, Selection, and Award 57
Funding priorities for alignment with
agency priorities
Before we make final funding decisions, CDC leadership will review all
potential awards. They will check for:
• Adherence to applicable laws.
• Alignment to agency priorities (see Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) Priorities).
To the extent allowed by law and court orders, we will give a funding priority
to applications that align with agency priorities.
Award notices
If you are successful, we will email a Notice of Award (NoA) to your
authorized official.
We will email you or write you a letter if your application is disqualified
or unsuccessful.
You will receive these notifications by the end of October 2026.
The NoA is the only official award document. The NoA tells you about the
amount of the award, important dates, and the terms and conditions you
need to follow. Until you receive the NoA, you don’t have permission to
start work.
Once you draw down funds, you have accepted all terms and conditions of
the award.
If you want to know more about NoA contents, go to Understanding Your
Notice of Award at CDC’s website.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 4: Understand Review, Selection, and Award 58
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 5:
Submit Your Application
In this step
Submission and deadlines 60
Submission and deadlines
See the section on finding the application package to make sure you have
everything you need.
You must obtain a UEI number associated with your organization’s physical
location. Some organizations may have multiple UEI numbers. Use the UEI
number associated with the location receiving the federal funds.
Make sure you are current with SAM.gov and UEI requirements. See the
section on getting registered.
You will have to maintain your registration throughout the life of any award.
Application
Due on Friday, October 2, 2026 at 11:59 p.m. ET.
You must submit your application through Grants.gov. See get registered.
For instructions on how to submit in Grants.gov,
see the Quick Start Guide for Applicants.
Keep in mind:
• Grants.gov creates a date and time record when it receives the
application. If you submit the same application more than once, we will
accept the last on-time submission.
• Your organization’s authorized official must certify your application.
• Do not encrypt, zip, or password-protect any files.
• Make sure your application passes the Grants.gov validation checks, or
we may not get it.
The grants management officer may extend an application due date based on
emergency situations such as documented natural disasters or a verifiable
widespread disruption of electric or mail service.
See Contacts and Support if you need help.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 5: Submit Your Application 60
If you are experiencing technical issues with your submission that may impact
submitting your application by the deadline, email the grants management
contact at least five calendar days before the application deadline with the
following information:
• Your organization name and contact information.
• The opportunity number of this NOFO.
• The Grants.gov case number assigned to your inquiry.
• The problems that prevent you from submitting through Grants.gov, and
how you attempted to solve these problems with the help of the
Grants.gov Contact Center.
Intergovernmental review
Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs does
not apply to this NOFO. You do not need to take any action.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 5: Submit Your Application 61
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6:
Learn What Happens
After Award
In this step
Post-award requirements and administration 63
Post-award requirements
and administration
We adopt by reference all materials included in the links within this NOFO.
Administrative and national
policy requirements
There are important rules you need to read and know if you get an award.
You must follow:
• All terms and conditions in the Notice of Award (NoA) including CDC
General Terms and Conditions. The NoA includes the requirements of
this NOFO.
• The rules listed in, 2 CFR 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost
Principles, and Audit Requirements, effective October 1, 2025. These
replace those in 45 CFR 75, with some exceptions in 2 CFR 300.
• The HHS Grants Policy Statement (GPS). This document has policies
relevant to your award. If there are any exceptions to the GPS, they’ll be
listed in your Notice of Award.
• All federal statutes and regulations relevant to federal financial
assistance, including the cited authority in this award, the funding
authority used for this award, and those highlighted in the HHS Grants
Policy Statement, Appendix D: HHS Administrative and National
,br>Policy Requirements.
• All anti-discrimination laws: By applying for or accepting federal funds
from HHS, recipients certify compliance with all federal antidiscrimination
laws and these requirements and that complying with those laws is a
material condition of receiving federal funding streams. Recipients are
responsible for ensuring subrecipients, contractors, and partners
also comply.
• We can take corrective or enforcement actions if your performance is
poor, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339 and 2 CFR 200.340,
as appropriate.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 63
Reporting
If you are successful, you will have to submit financial and performance
reports. These include:
Table: Financial and performance reports
Report Description When
Recipient Evaluation and
Performance Measurement
Plan
• Builds on the plan in the
application.
• Includes measures and targets.
• Shows how data are collected and
used (data management plan).
Six months into award.
Recipient Data
Management Plan
• Shows how data is collected and
used (data management plan).
Six months into award.
Annual Performance
Report
• Serves as yearly continuation
application.
• Includes performance measures,
successes, and challenges.
• Updates work plan.
• Includes how CDC could help
overcome challenges.
• Includes budget for the next
12-month budget period.
No later than 120 days
before the end of each
budget period.
Expenditure Reporting • Expenditure reporting (financial
reports) due to CDC project officer
and relevant activity manager for
each country and program or
activity-level funded under this
NOFO, as applicable.
Bi-annually.
Annual Federal Financial
Report (FFR)
• Includes funds authorized and
disbursed during the budget
period.
• Indicates exact balance of
unobligated funds and other
financial information.
90 days after the end of
each budget period.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 64
Report Description When
Performance Measure
Reporting
• CDC program will determine after
award.
Reporting frequency will be
determined after award. It
will likely be quarterly and
annually.
Final Performance Report • Includes information similar to the
Annual Performance Report.
120 days after the end of
the period of performance.
Final Federal Financial
Report (FFR)
• Includes information similar to the
Federal Financial Report.
120 days after the end of
the period of performance.
Foreign Tax Report • Includes the amount of foreign
taxes assessed, reimbursed, and
unreimbursed by each foreign
government.
• Also applies to subawards.
Annually by November 16.
Quarterly by January 15,
April 15, July 15, and
October 15 each year.
Audit, Books, and Records • Accounting records and other
information and reports.
When applicable, within 30
days of completion of the
audit and no later than
nine months after the end
of the period under audit.
To learn more about these reporting requirements, see Reporting on the
CDC website.
CDC award monitoring
Monitoring activities include:
• Routine and ongoing communication between CDC and recipients.
• Site visits.
• Recipient reporting, including work plans, performance reporting, and
financial reporting.
We expect to include the following in post-award monitoring:
• Tracking your progress in achieving outcomes.
• Making sure your systems can hold information and generate
data reports.
• Creating an environment that fosters integrity in performance
and results.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 65
We may also include the following activities:
• Organizing an orientation meeting to discuss expectations, regulations,
key management requirements, and report formats and contents.
• Reviewing and approving your evaluation and performance
measurement plan, including to make sure it complies with CDC’s
guidance. This includes guidance from the CDC’s Division of Global Health
Protection Monitoring and Evaluation Office and Data for Partner
Monitoring Program.
• Meeting with you regularly to review your technical and financial
progress reports and modify your plans, as needed.
• Meeting with you each year to review your annual progress report and
review and adjust your work plans for the next fiscal year. We might
adjust based on whether you have achieved outcomes, the results of
your evaluation, changing budgets, and country or
headquarters approval.
• Providing technical oversight for all your activities.
• Helping set up in-country meetings to plan and review technical
assistance activities.
• Making sure you are on track to achieve outcomes on time.
• Monitoring programmatic and financial performance measures to ensure
satisfactory performance.
• Other activities that help us identify and manage risk, including among
high-risk recipients.
CDC can take corrective or enforcement actions if you underperform in
achieving your project’s targets, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.
• Corrective action may include:
• Target improvement plans.
• Corrective action plans.
• Other corrective actions described in 2 CFR 200.
When we are considering a target improvement or corrective action plan, we
will consider your level of effort, including:
• Any preventive action you have taken.
• Any extenuating circumstances, within or outside your organization.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 66
CDC’s role
When applicable, we will require you to collaborate with CDC in-country
office(s) and CDC headquarters (HQ) for technical oversight of project
activities under your award.
In addition to the CDC project officer (PO), you will collaborate with in-country
and/or HQ contacts, subject matter experts (SMEs), and technical leads. The
PO of your award will provide relevant contacts of CDC staff and coordinate
discussions with you.
Under a cooperative agreement, CDC has substantial involvement in your
project. This means that we will do the following:
• Help with your review and selection of key personnel, any post-award
subcontractors, and any subrecipients that will be involved in the
activities performed under this NOFO. This is limited to reviewing and
making recommendations on the process you use to select these
individuals and organizations.
• Provide technical assistance and targeted training activities designed to
help you:
◦ Develop and conduct program activities based on CDC and other
USG guidance and best practices.
◦ Manage, analyze, and ensure data quality.
◦ Meet U.S. government financial and reporting requirements.
◦ Present and possibly publish program results and findings.
◦ Manage and track finances.
• Guide you on how to allocate funds and conduct monitoring and
evaluation activities, including providing ethical reviews to direct or assist
with any needed changes.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 67
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Contacts and Support
In this step
Agency contacts 69
Help with systems 69
Reference websites 70
Agency contacts
Program
DGHP NOFOs
Email: DGHPNOFOS@cdc.gov
Grants management
Randolph Williams
Grants Management Officer
Email: gur2@cdc.gov
Telephone: 770-488-8382
Help with systems
Grants.gov
Grants.gov provides 24/7 support. Hold on to your ticket number.
• Email: support@Grants.gov
• Telephone: 1-800-518-4726
Login.gov
You can contact the Login.gov Help Desk for customer support at
844-875-6446. Help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
SAM.gov
If you need help, you can call 866-606-8220 or live chat with the Federal
Service Desk.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Contacts and Support 69
Reference websites
• U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
• Grants Dictionary of Terms
• CDC Grants: How to Apply
• CDC Grants: Already Have a CDC Grant?
• Grants.gov Accessibility Information
• Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
• United States Code (U.S.C.)
• U.S. Department of State/Bureau of Global Health Security
and Diplomacy
• FFR Information | HHS PSC FMP Payment Management Services
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Contacts and Support 70