Notice of Funding Opportunity
Application due 09/09/2026
Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC)
Health Center Program
Fiscal Year 2027 Expanding
Nutrition Services
Opportunity number: HRSA-27-099
Contents
Before you begin 3
Step 1: Review the Opportunity 4
Basic information 5
Funding details 5
Eligibility 6
Program description 8
Award information 10
Step 2: Get Ready to Apply 13
Get registered 13
Find the application package 13
Application writing help 14
Step 3: Build Your Application 15
Application checklist 16
Application contents and format 18
Step 4: Understand Review, Selection, and Award 30
Application review 31
Selection process 35
Award notices 36
Step 5: Submit Your Application 37
Application submission and deadlines 38
Other submissions 38
Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award 40
Post-award requirements and administration 41
Reporting 45
Contacts and Support 46
Endnotes 51
Before you begin
If you believe you are a good candidate for this funding opportunity, secure your
SAM.gov and Grants.gov registrations now. If you are already registered, make sure your
registrations are active and up-to-date.
SAM.gov registration (this can take several weeks)
You must have an active account with SAM.gov. This includes having a Unique Entity
Identifier (UEI).
See Step 2: Get Ready to Apply
Grants.gov registration (this can take several days)
You must have an active Grants.gov registration. Doing so requires a Login.gov
registration as well.
See Step 2: Get Ready to Apply
Apply by the application due date
Applications are due by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on 09/09/2026.
All activities proposed in your application and budget narrative must align with applicable
law, including but not limited to statutes, executive orders, federal regulations and applicable
judicial holdings. Accordingly, discretionary awards shall not be used to fund, promote,
encourage, subsidize, or facilitate: racial preferences or other forms of racial discrimination
by the recipient, including activities where race or intentional proxies for race will be used as
a selection criterion for employment or program participation; denial by the recipient of the
sex binary in humans, or the belief that sex is a chosen or mutable characteristic; illegal
immigration; or any other initiatives that compromise public safety. If an application does
not align, the application will not receive funding to the extent permitted by law and
applicable court orders.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 1:
Review the Opportunity
In this step
Basic information 5
Funding details 5
Eligibility 6
Program description 7
Award information 9
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Basic information
Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)
Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC)
Health Center Program
Increase access to nutrition services at HRSA-funded health centers.
Summary
The purpose of Fiscal Year (FY) 2027 Expanding Nutrition Services (ENS) funding is to
increase access to nutrition services at HRSA-funded health centers. Nutrition services
can help to prevent, manage, and treat diseases and conditions through nutritional
and food-based interventions. Health centers will use ENS funding to increase the
number of nutrition services patients or visits.
Funding details
Application types: Competing supplement
Expected total available funding in FY: 2027: $125,000,000
Expected number and type of awards: 357 Grants (G)
Funding range per award: $350,000
We plan to fund awards in 2 12-month budget periods for a total 2-year period of
performance from 12/01/2026 to 11/30/2028.
Have questions?
Go to Contacts and
Support.
Key facts
name:
Nutrition Services
number:
version:
Initial
93.224
Key dates
07/08/2026
deadline:
09/09/2026
12/01/2026
12/01/2026
See other submissions that
may apply to this NOFO.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Eligibility
Types of eligible organizations
These types of domestic organizations may apply:
You can apply if you are a Health Center Program award recipient with an active H80
award. A Health Center Program (H80) award is funded under section 330(e) of the
Public Health Service (PHS) Act.
Individuals are not eligible applicants under this NOFO.
Completeness and responsive criteria
We will review your application to make sure it meets these basic requirements to
move forward in the competition.
We will not consider an application that:
• Is from an organization that does not meet all eligibility criteria.
• Is submitted after the deadline.
• Does not include a Project Narrative.
• Requests above the amount of $350,000 annually.
Application limits
You may submit only one application. If you submit more than one application, we will
accept the last on-time submission.
Cost sharing
This program has no cost-sharing requirement. If you choose to share in the costs of the
project, we will not consider it during merit review. Recipients agree that once
committed, cost sharing amounts are enforceable and subject to reporting and
auditing requirements under 2 CFR 200.
Before you apply, make sure you understand the requirements that come with an award.
See Step 6: Learn What Happens After Award for information on regulations that apply,
reporting, and more.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Program description
Purpose
Fiscal Year (FY) 2027 Expanding Nutrition Services (ENS) funding will support HRSA-
funded health centers to increase access to nutrition services. Nutrition services can
help to prevent, manage, and treat diseases and conditions through nutritional and
food-based interventions.
Goal
Applicants for this funding must increase the number of nutrition services patients or visits.
Background
Three in four American adults and more than 40 percent of school-aged children have
at least one chronic condition[1]. The United States has high rates of nutrition-related
chronic conditions such as obesity, heart disease, and diabetes[2]. Nutrition services
can help to prevent and manage chronic conditions. These services may include
nutritional assessments, patient education and counseling on healthy eating, and
connection to food resources. A variety of personnel may be involved, including
nutritionists, dietitians, health educators, care coordinators, and community health
workers. Successful delivery of nutrition services may require patient support services,
such as case management, outreach, eligibility assistance, and transportation.
Partnerships with farms, food banks, schools, other health care providers, and
community-based organizations, can increase efficiency and impact.
The Health Center Program is well positioned to expand access to nutrition services
through comprehensive primary and preventive care. More than 32 million people
received care from HRSA-funded health centers in 2024. Health centers already assess
weight, provide nutrition counseling, and help millions of patients achieve better
outcomes, such as controlled A1c levels and blood pressure. However, health centers
can expand these services to support increased nutrition and food-based interventions
that promote health and reduce disease.
The Make America Healthy Again (MAHA) initiative addresses the nation’s chronic
disease epidemic. ENS aligns with the MAHA priority to guide patients and families in
making lifestyle changes in a trusted primary care setting. For many communities, the
health center is the first point of access for any health care need. ENS funding will
support health centers in expanding nutrition services to better manage and
prevent chronic conditions and improve patient outcomes.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Program requirements and expectations
• You must propose to increase the number of nutrition services patients or visits.
◦ HRSA will add a new nutrition services measure to the Uniform Data System
(UDS) Table 5: Staffing and Utilization in 2027. We will use the difference
between your 2027 and 2028 data for this measure to determine if you meet
the ENS objective.
• You must propose to start or expand nutrition services either directly or by
contract (Form 5A, columns I or II).
• You must add nutrition services to your scope of project within 120 days of award
if you are not already providing them (Form 5A, columns I or II).
Statutory authority
Section 330 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act (42 U.S.C. 254b)
Nutrition services can help to prevent, manage, and treat diseases and conditions
through nutritional and food-based interventions. These services may include:
Nutritional assessment and treatment, including counseling and patient education.
Medical Nutrition Therapy.
Nutrition instruction (for example, promote healthy eating and meal preparation,
improve food literacy).
Weight management programs (for example, group visits).
Nutritional and food-based interventions to help prevent, manage, and treat diet-
related chronic diseases and promote health.
Nutrition services are separate and distinct from:
Basic nutrition recommendations or dietary education given during general primary
care visits.
Helping patients apply for or enroll in food assistance programs that would be
recorded under the Eligibility Assistance service, such as Supplemental Nutrition
state, and local nutrition and food assistance programs.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Award information
Funding policies and limitations
Changes in HHS regulations
As of October 1, 2025, HHS has adopted 2 CFR Part 200, with some modifications
included in 2 CFR Part 300. These regulations replace those in 45 CFR Part 75.
Policies
• To make an award, funding must be available and allocated for this program and
purpose, at which point we will move forward with the review and award process.
• Have clear policies and good financial practices to avoid spending HRSA funds on
unallowable activities. Like other award rules, we may audit your policies,
procedures, and controls.
• All uses of funds must align with your H80 scope of project. Your scope of project
includes the approved service sites, services, providers, service area, and target
population supported (wholly or in part) by your approved health center budget.
• The federal award may be terminated in part or in its entirety by the federal
agency or pass-through entity if an award no longer meets the program goals or
agency priorities.
• You must maintain your H80 award status throughout the ENS period of
performance to maintain this funding.
• You must have accounting structures and internal controls in place that provide
accurate and complete information for costs associated with this award. HRSA
funding and expenditures for ENS must be tracked and documented in alignment
with the specifications described in 2 C.F.R. § 200.302.
• You must comply with Health Center Program requirements as described in the
Health Center Program Compliance Manual, and applicable law and regulations.
• If we receive more funding for this program, we may:
◦ Fund more applicants from the rank order list.
General limitations
• For guidance on some types of costs we do not allow or restrict, see:
◦ Project Budget Information in the Application Guide.
◦ 2 CFR Part 200 Subpart E - General Provisions for Selected Items of Cost.
◦ Allowable and Unallowable Costs and Activities, in the HHS Grants Policy
Statement.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• All costs must be reasonable, necessary, allocable to the award, and adequately
documented (2 CFR 200.403).
• You cannot earn profit from the federal award. See 2 CFR § 200.400(g).
• Current appropriations law includes a salary limit of $228,000 as of January 2026
that applies to this program. You may pay salaries at a higher rate if the rate
beyond the salary rate limit (Executive Level II) is paid with non-HHS funds.
Program-specific statutory or regulatory limitations
You may not spend funds for:
• Costs already paid for by any other federal awards.
• Costs not aligned with the ENS purpose.
• Gift cards or other cash equivalent incentives.
• Costs for services and activities that are not provided directly by or on behalf of
the health center.
• Purchase or upgrade of an electronic health record (EHR) that is not certified by
the office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology’s Health
IT Certification Program.
• New construction activities, including additions or expansion.
• Major alteration or renovation (A/R) projects valued at $1,000,000 or greater in
total federal and non-federal costs (excluding the cost of movable equipment).
• Purchase and installation of trailers and prefabricated modular units.
• Concrete or asphalt paving of new areas outside of a building.
• Facility or land purchases.
Under existing law, and consistent with Executive Order 13535 (75 FR 15599), you must
not use federal funds to provide abortions, except in cases of rape or incest, or when a
physician certifies that the woman has a physical disorder, physical injury, or physical
illness that would place her in danger of death unless an abortion is performed. This
includes all funds awarded under this notice and is consistent with past practice and
long-standing requirements.
See Manage Your Grant for other information on costs and financial management.
Indirect costs are costs you charge across more than one project that cannot be easily
separated by project. For example, this could include utilities for a building that
supports multiple projects.
To incur indirect costs, you can select one of two methods:
Method 1 – Approved rate. You currently have an indirect cost rate approved by your
cognizant federal agency at the time of award.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Method 2 – De minimis rate. Per 2 CFR § 200.414(f), if you do not have a current
negotiated indirect cost rate, you may elect to charge a de minimis rate. If you choose
this method, costs included in the indirect cost pool must not be charged as direct
costs.
This rate is up to 15% of modified total direct costs (MTDC). See 2 CFR § 200.1 for the
definition of MTDC. You can use this rate indefinitely for all your federal awards or until
you choose to receive a negotiated rate.
Consider your indirect costs when developing your budget.
Program income
Program income is money earned as a result of your award-supported project
activities. You must use any program income you generate from awarded funds for
approved project-related activities. Find more about program income at 2 CFR §
200.307.
The non-federal share of the project budget includes all program income sources such
as fees, premiums, third-party reimbursements, and payments generated from the
delivery of services. The non-federal share also includes other revenue sources such as:
• State, local, or other federal grants or contracts.
• Private support, donations, or contributions.
• Income generated from fundraising.
In accordance with 42 USC § 254b(e)(5)(D), health centers must use non-grant funds,
including funds in excess of those originally expected, “as permitted under this
section,” and may use such funds “for such other purposes as are not specifically
prohibited under this section if such use furthers the objectives of the project.”
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 2:
Get Ready to Apply
In this step
Get registered 13
Find the application package 13
Application writing help 14
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Get registered
SAM.gov
You must have an active account with SAM.gov to apply. This includes having a Unique
Entity Identifier (UEI). SAM.gov registration can take several weeks. Begin that process
today.
To register:
• Go to SAM.gov Entity Registration and select Get Started. From the same page, you
can also select the Entity Registration Checklist for the information you will need
to register.
• You must agree to the financial assistance general certifications and
representations specifically. Those for contracts are different.
When you register, you will also receive your required Unique Entity Identifier (UEI).
Once you register:
• You will have to maintain your registration throughout the life of any award.
• If your organization has multiple UEIs, use the one associated with your physical
location.
If you need additional information about user roles in SAM.gov, see “Get registered:
SAM.gov user roles” in the Application Guide.
Grants.gov
You must also have an active account with Grants.gov. You can see step-by-step
instructions at the Grants.gov Quick Start Guide for Applicants.
If you have already registered on Grants.gov, make sure your account is active, and your
Authorized Organization Representative (AOR) is approved.
Find the application
package
The application package has all the forms you need to apply. You can find it online. Go
to Search Grants at Grants.gov and search for opportunity number HRSA-27-099.
After you select the opportunity, we recommend that you click the Subscribe button to
get updates.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Application writing help
Visit HHS Tips for Preparing Grant Proposals.
Visit HRSA’s How to Prepare Your Application page for more guidance.
See Apply for a Grant for other help and resources.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) will be posted on the ENS technical assistance (TA)
webpage.
Join the webinar
For more information about this opportunity, details will be posted on the ENS TA
webpage.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 3:
Build Your Application
In this step
Application checklist 16
Application contents and format 18
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Application checklist
There are two types of forms in Grants.gov:
• Some forms allow you to upload components of your application to the form.
These include components like your project narrative, budget and budget
narrative, and attachments, as applicable.
• Other forms are more typical, fill-in-the-blank forms.
Make sure that you have everything you need to apply.
Narratives
Component Grants.gov form Included in
page limit?
Project narrative Use the Project Narrative Attachment
form.
Yes
Budget narrative with staff justification
table
Use the Budget Narrative Attachment
form.
Yes
Attachments
Insert each in the Attachments Form in this order.
You may download the forms below from the HRSA-27-099 announcement in
Grants.gov under Related Documents or the ENS TA webpage.
Component Included in
page limit?
1. H80 Grant Number Form (Required) No
2. Form 1B: Funding Request Summary (Required) No
3. Equipment List Form (as applicable) No
4. Environmental and Information Documentation (EID) Checklist Form (as applicable) No
5. Minor A/R Project Cover Page Form (as applicable) No
6. Other Requirements for Sites Form (as applicable) No
7. Property Information (as applicable) and Landlord Letter of Consent (as applicable) No
8. Floor Plans/Schematic Drawings/Site Plans (as applicable) No
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Component Included in
page limit?
9. Minor A/R Budget Justification (as applicable) and Copy of Form 5B: Service Sites for
Minor A/R Project (as applicable)
No
10. Other Relevant Documents (as applicable) Yes
Other required forms
Complete each required form in Grants.gov.
Component
Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424)
Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs (SF-424A)
Project Abstract Summary form
Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL), optional
Project/Performance Site Location(s)
Grants.gov Lobbying form
Key Contacts
Included in page limit?
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Application contents and
format
This section includes guidance on each component found in the application checklist.
Application page limit: 50. We will not review any pages that exceed the page limit.
Submit your information in English and express whole number budget figures using
U.S. dollars.
Required format
Required format for project summary, project narrative, budget narrative, and
attachments.
Font: A readable font like Arial, Courier, CG Times, or Times New Roman
File format: We only accept the following document formats:
• .PDF - Adobe Portable Document Format
• .DOC/.DOCX - Microsoft Word
• .RTF - Rich Text Format o .TXT - Text
• .WPD - Word Perfect Document
• .XLS/.XLSX - Microsoft Excel
• .VSD - Microsoft Visio
Size: 12-point font
Footnotes, charts, graphics, and budget tables may be 10-point or higher.
Ink color: Black
Spacing: Single-spaced, including all text and tables
Alignment: Left
Headings: Bold all headings and align left
Size: 8.5 x 11 (Make sure the print area is set and allows printing to 8.5 x 11.)
Margins: 1-inch on all sides
Footer: On each page as the footer, include your organization’s name and page
numbers. If a competing continuation or competing supplement, also include your
10-digit award number.
Page numbering:
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• Do not number the standard OMB-approved forms.
• Number each attachment page sequentially (that is, 1, 2, 3).
• Reset the numbering for each attachment.
• Treat each attachment as a separate section.
File names: You can find guidance for naming your files in the Application Guide.
Other required forms
You will need to complete some other forms. Upload the following forms at Grants.gov.
You can find them in the NOFO application package or review them and any available
instructions at Grants.gov Forms.
Forms Submission requirement
Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424) With application.
Budget Narrative Attachment Form With application.
Project Narrative Attachment Form With application.
Project/Performance Site Location(s) With application.
Project Abstract Summary Form With application.
Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs (SF-424A) With application
Grants.gov Lobbying Form With application.
Key Contacts With application.
Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL) With application.
Form instructions
The Application Guide has detailed instructions for:
• The Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424).
• The Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs (SF-424A).
Application for federal assistance
(SF-424)
This form collects general information and is your application for federal assistance.
Follow the instructions in Section 3.1.1 of the Application Guide and the form
instructions in Grants.gov Forms.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Project abstract summary form instructions
Complete the information in the Project Abstract Summary form. Include a short
description of your proposed project. Include the needs you plan to address, whether
you will add nutrition services with this funding or expand services you already offer,
your proposed increase in the number of nutrition services patients or visits, and how
your project aligns with MAHA priorities, such as:
• Disease Prevention.
• Fighting the Chronic Disease Epidemic.
• Nutrition.
When writing your summary:
• Use 4,000 characters or fewer. Make sure it’s clear, accurate, and short.
• Do not refer to other parts of the application.
• Do not include personally identifiable information (PII).
If you receive an award, we’ll put your project abstract on public websites and
databases, including USAspending.gov.
When filling out your SF-424 form, pay attention to Box 15: Descriptive Title of
Applicant’s Project.
We share what you put there with USAspending. This is where the public goes to learn
how the federal government spends its money.
Instead of just a title, insert a short description of your project and what it will do.
See instructions and examples.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Project/performance site location(s)
Follow the form instructions in Grants.gov Forms. Use the “Next Site” option rather
than “Additional Location(s)” to add more than one project/performance site location.
The project narrative is required for completeness.
In this section, you will describe all aspects of your project.
Use the section headers and the order listed. Number your responses in each section.
This ensures reviewers can understand your proposed project.
Project narrative
Need
See merit review criterion 1: Need
1. Describe the need to start or expand your nutrition services to help prevent and
manage chronic conditions in your service area. Include the following data to
demonstrate unmet need:
a. Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition and Physical Activity for
Children and Adolescents (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 12).
b. Preventive Care and Screening: Body Mass Index (BMI) Screening and Follow-
Up Plan (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 13).
c. Additional UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, as appropriate.
d. Other relevant data specific to your service area.
2. Describe any challenges with your current health center workforce that impact
your capacity to start or expand nutrition services. Workforce challenges may
include personnel, training, roles, or workflows.
Response
See merit review criterion 2: Response
1. Describe how you will:
a. Increase the number of patients receiving nutrition services and/or the
number of nutrition-related visits.
b. Help prevent and manage chronic conditions through expanded nutrition
services.
c. Coordinate care for patients with inconsistent access to adequate nutritious
food.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
d. Advance the skills and knowledge of your workforce to support expanded
nutrition services.
2. Describe your quality improvement plan to improve patient health outcomes
related to nutrition services.
3. Explain how any proposed equipment and/or minor A/R costs are necessary for
your project. Describe how you will complete all equipment purchases and/or
minor A/R within 12 months of award.
Collaboration
See merit review criterion 3: Collaboration
1. Describe how you will work with organizations in your service area that improve
patient health through better nutrition. If applicable, include how you will
leverage expertise of Health Center Technical Assistance Programs, such as
Primary Care Associations (PCAs), Health Center Controlled Networks (HCCNs), or
National Technical Assistance Program (NTAPs).
2. Describe how you will link patients to partners that support access to healthy
food, such as food banks, mobile markets, or community-supported agriculture.
3. Explain how your project aligns with and does not duplicate existing federal
programs that may be operating in your service area, like those proposed or
currently funded by MAHA ELEVATE, National Diabetes Prevention Program,
IHS Produce Prescription Pilot Program, USDA Food and Nutrition Service
Programs, Healthy Start, Maternal Child Health Nutrition Training Program, or
Gus Schumacher Nutrition Incentive Program (GusNIP). If there are no other
federal programs operating in your service area, state this in your narrative.
Impact
See merit review criterion 4: Impact
1. Describe how you will measure the impact of your project by the end of the two-
year period of performance. Include:
a. Number of nutrition services patients and/or visits. HRSA plans to add a
nutrition services measure to 2027 UDS.
b. Other measures to demonstrate that your project has helped prevent and
manage chronic conditions.
2. Describe how you will measure the impact of your program beyond the two-year
period of performance. Include:
a. Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition and Physical Activity for
Children and Adolescents (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 12).
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
b. Preventive Care and Screening: Body Mass Index (BMI) Screening and Follow-
Up Plan (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 13).
c. Targeted patient health outcomes you identified in your Need and Response
sections.
Capacity
See merit review criterion 5: Capacity
1. Describe your skills, expertise, and organizational capacity to start or expand your
nutrition services.
2. Describe your use of screening tools to assess the nutritional status of your
patients. If you do not currently use screening tools for this purpose, describe
your use of other risk identification screening tools to inform program
development.
3. Describe your capability to implement, monitor, and adapt the project throughout
the period of performance.
Budget and budget narrative
See merit review criterion 6: Support Requested
Your budget should follow the instructions in budget narrative: detailed instructions
section of the Application Guide and the instructions listed in this section. Your budget
should show a well-organized plan.
HHS now uses the definitions for equipment and supply in 2 CFR § 200.1. The new
definitions change the threshold for equipment to the lesser of your capitalization level
or $10,000 and the threshold for supplies to below that amount.
The total project or program costs are all allowable (direct and indirect) costs used for
the ENS award. This includes costs charged to the award and non-federal funds used to
satisfy a matching or cost-sharing requirement.
As you develop your budget:
• Make sure costs are reasonable, allowable, allocable, and consistent with your
project’s purpose and activities.
• Follow the restrictions on spending funds. See funding policies and limitations.
• Comply with all related HHS policies and other federal requirements.
You may use up to $150,000 for one-time costs in year 1 to meet this program’s
objective, including:
• Moveable equipment that costs $10,000 or more.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• A single minor alteration or renovation (A/R) project. The total federal and non-
federal cost of the A/R project must be less than $1,000,000, excluding the cost of
moveable equipment.
Your total budget must:
• Include the requested federal funds.
• Include all non-federal funds that will support your project, as applicable.
• Directly relate to and support the proposed project.
• Comply with all related HHS policies and other federal requirements.
Use of grant funds for food purchases is allowed for this NOFO due to its focus on
nutrition services. If approved by HRSA, you may use federal funds to purchase healthy
foods for patients if the purchases are necessary for proposed activities that will meet
the ENS objective. For examples of allowable food costs, see Appendix B: Example
Allowable Food Costs.
Budget Information Form for Non-
Construction Programs (SF-424A)
Complete the Budget Information Form in Grants.gov. This form collects your project
budget information. Use the instructions here if they contradict Section 3.1.4 of the
Application Guide.
• Section A – Budget Summary: Under New or Revised Budget, in the
Federal column, enter the Federal funding requested for year 1 (up to
$350,000). We will award funding based on your current H80 award
proportions. The Federal amount refers to only the ENS funding requested,
not all federal funding that you receive. Enter other support for the ENS
project in the Non-Federal column. Leave the Estimate Obligated Funds
column blank.
• Section B – Budget Categories: Enter an object class category (line item) budget
for year 1. Include only Federal funding. The amounts for each category in the
Federal and Non-Federal columns, as well as the totals, should align with the
Budget Narrative. You may request up to $150,000 for equipment and minor A/R in
year 1. If you request funds for equipment, include that amount on the equipment
line. If you request funds for minor A/R, include that amount on the construction
line.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• Section C – Non-Federal Resources: Enter all sources of funding for year 1 except
for the federal funding request. The total in Section C must match the Non-Federal
Total in Section A. When providing Non-Federal resources by funding source,
include other Federal funds supporting the proposed project in the “other”
category.
• Section D – Forecasted Cash Needs: Leave this section blank.
• Section E – Budget Estimates of Federal Funds Needed for Balance of the
Project: Enter the federal funding request (up to $350,000) for year 2 in the (a) first
column. The other columns must remain $0. Any funding beyond year 2 will be
based on appropriations, satisfactory progress in meeting the project’s objective,
and a decision that continued funding is in the government’s best interest.
• Section F – Other Budget Information: Enter the type of indirect rate (provisional,
predetermined, final, fixed, or de minimis) that will be in effect during the period of
performance. If applicable, explain amounts for individual object class categories
that may appear to be out of the ordinary in Direct Charges.
Budget Narrative with Staff Justification
Table
The budget narrative, which includes the Staff Justification Table, supports the
information you provide in Section B: Object Class Categories of the SF-424A. It gives an
itemized breakdown and clear justification of the costs you request. The merit review
committee reviews the budget narrative.
To create your budget narrative, see detailed instructions in Section 3.1.5 of the
Application Guide.
See the ENS TA webpage for a sample Budget Narrative.
Submit a detailed budget narrative that outlines federal and non-federal costs for each
budget year of the two-year period of performance. For year two, highlight the changes
from year 1 or clearly indicate that there are no substantive changes.
Make sure your budget narrative aligns with your Minor A/R Budget Justification and
Equipment List form if you request this funding. See Appendix A: Minor A/R
Requirements for details.
The sum of line-item costs for each category must align with those in your SF-424A.
Your budget narrative must:
• Show that you will use the awarded funds to meet the program objectives.
• Clearly detail the proposed costs for each line item on your SF-424A, Section B,
with calculations for how you estimated each cost.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• Not include ineligible costs.
• Not exceed $150,000 in minor A/R and equipment costs.
• Provide us with enough information to determine that you will use the funds
awarded separately and distinctly from other Health Center Program support.
• Include a staff justification table attachment, as shown in section 3.1.4 of the
Application Guide.
• Explain the purpose of any contracts and subawards, including how you estimated
the costs. You must provide oversight of services provided through such
arrangements to ensure compliance with Section 330 requirements. See Chapter
12: Contracts and Subawards in the Compliance Manual.
Attachments
See Section 3.2.6 of the Application Guide.
Place your attachments in this order in the Attachments Form. See application
checklist to determine if they count toward the page limit.
Attachment 1: H80 Grant Number Form (Required)
Does not count towards the page limit.
Provide your current H80 grant number in the H80 Grant Number Form. We will use this
to help determine eligibility. You can download this form from the HRSA-27-099
announcement in Grants.gov under Related Documents or the ENS TA webpage.
Attachment 2: Form 1B: Funding Request Summary (Required)
Does not count towards the page limit.
Use Form 1B to summarize data from your SF-424A. Enter the amount of federal ENS
funding you requested on the SF-424A in the Federal Funding Request box. Use the
radio buttons to indicate if you are requesting funding for one-time expenses. You can
download this form from the HRSA-27-099 announcement in Grants.gov under Related
Documents or the ENS TA webpage.
Attachment 3: Equipment List Form (As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
If you request one-time funding for equipment, you must complete the Equipment List
Form. You can download this form from the HRSA-27-099 announcement in
Grants.gov under Related Documents or the ENS TA webpage. Total federal
equipment and minor A/R costs combined in year one cannot exceed $150,000. Enter
the amount for your request on the Equipment row of the SF-424A: Budget
Information Form.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Equipment is:
• Moveable and can be readily shifted from place to place without requiring a
change in the utilities or structural characteristics of the space.
• Non-expendable, tangible personal property, including IT systems.
• Useful for more than one year.
• At a cost of $10,000 or more per unit, or the lesser capitalization level established
by the recipient.
Any equipment you purchase with ENS funds must be:
• Pertinent to the ENS project.
• Procured through a competitive process.
• Maintained, tracked, and disposed of in accordance with 2 CFR Part 200.
• Used only at in-scope service sites.
Complete the following for each item on the Equipment List Form:
• Type: Select clinical or non-clinical.
• Item Description: Provide a description of each item.
• Unit Price: Enter the price of each item.
• Quantity: Enter the number of each item to be purchased.
• Total Price: The system will calculate the total price by multiplying the unit price
by the quantity entered.
Attachment 4: Environmental and Information Documentation (EID) Checklist Form
(As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
If you request one-time funding for minor A/R, you must complete the Environmental
Information Documentation (EID) Checklist Form. You can download this form from the
HRSA-27-099 announcement in Grants.gov under Related Documents or the ENS TA
webpage. Follow the instructions on the form.
Attachment 5: Minor A/R Project Cover Page Form (As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
If you request one-time funding for minor A/R, you must complete the Minor A/R
Project Cover Page Form. You can download this form from the HRSA-27-099
announcement in Grants.gov under Related Documents or the ENS TA webpage. Follow
the instructions on the form.
Ground disturbance is allowed for ENS if limited to food garden beds (raised or not
raised).
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Attachment 6: Other Requirements for Sites Form (As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
If you request one-time funding for minor A/R, you must complete the Other
Requirements for Sites Form. You can download this form from the HRSA-27-099
announcement in Grants.gov under Related Documents or the ENS TA webpage. Follow
the instructions on the form.
Attachment 7: Property Information (As Applicable) and Landlord Letter of Consent
(As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
If you request one-time funding for minor A/R, provide a copy of the title, deed, or lease
for the site of your project.
If your minor A/R will be on leased property, include a Landlord Letter of Consent. You
may use this template for the letter.
Attachment 8: Floor Plans/Schematic Drawings/Site Plans (As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
Provide a floor plan drawn to scale for your minor A/R project. It must show the
location of the work and dimensions of the impacted area. All drawings must be
consistent with your proposed activities. It must include:
• Rough dimensions of the facility and total square footage
• The area in the facility that will not be affected distinct from the area being altered
or renovated
• Total square footage of the impacted area
• Labels for each room where major project components are occurring, such as
exam room, reception area, or break room
You may mark up and make notations on an existing plan or diagram to show the area
of the renovation. Provide the existing and marked-up plans.
Attachment 9: Minor A/R Budget Justification (As applicable) and Copy of Form 5B:
Service Sites for Minor A/R Project (As applicable)
Does not count towards the page limit.
Combine the Minor A/R Budget Justification and Copy of Form 5B: Service Sites for
Minor A/R Project into one attachment.
Minor A/R Budget Justification
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• Provide a budget justification for your minor A/R project. Describe each line item
in detail. Identify other funding sources that will support your minor A/R project
and whether you have already secured these funds.
• Explain how the costs will support your project’s purpose and provide a timeline
for when you will start and complete each proposed minor A/R activity. Include
the number of months necessary for each activity.
• See the ENS TA webpage for a sample minor A/R budget justification, including
allowable and unallowable costs.
Copy of Form 5B: Service Sites for Minor A/R Project
• You may propose one minor A/R project at a site in your scope of project. Attach
the Form 5B: Service Sites form for the site of your minor A/R project.
• You can get a copy of your Form 5B in your Scope folder in the HRSA Electronic
Handbooks.
Attachment 10: Other Relevant Documents (As applicable)
Counts towards the page limit.
Use Attachment 10 to add other relevant documents to support your proposed project.
If you are requesting indirect costs, provide your indirect cost rate agreement. You do
not need to attach anything if you indicated in your budget narrative on the indirect
cost rate line that you are using the de minimis rate of 15%. Your indirect cost
agreement does not count towards the page limit.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 4:
Understand Review, Selection,
and Award
In this step
Application review 31
Selection process 35
Award notices 36
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Application review
Initial review
We will review your application to make sure that it meets eligibility criteria, including
the completeness and responsiveness criteria. If your application does not meet these
criteria, we will not fund it. If this is the case, we will notify your authorized official.
We will not review any pages that exceed the page limit. Pages that exceed the page
limit will be redacted and will not be reviewed. Only the content within the page limit
will be used to determine eligibility.
Merit review
A panel reviews all applications that pass the initial review. You can find more about
the merit review process in the application guide. The members use these criteria:
Criterion Total number of points = 100
1. Need 20 points
2. Response 20 points
3. Collaboration 15 points
4. Impact 20 points
5. Capacity 20 points
6. Support Requested 5 points
Criterion 1: Need (20 points)
See the project narrative Need section.
The panel will review your application for:
• The extent to which you describe the need to start or expand nutrition services to
help prevent and manage chronic conditions in your service area.
• The extent to which you use data to demonstrate unmet need, including:
◦ Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition and Physical Activity for
Children and Adolescents data (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line
12).
◦ Preventive Care and Screening: Body Mass Index (BMI) Screening and Follow-
Up Plan data (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 13).
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
◦ Additional UDS Table 6B measures, as appropriate.
◦ Other relevant data specific to your service area.
• The strength of your description of challenges with your current health center
workforce that impact your capacity to start or expand nutrition services.
Criterion 2: Response (20 points)
See the project narrative Response section.
The panel will review your application for:
• The strength of your plan to increase the number of patients receiving nutrition
services and/or the number of nutrition-related visits.
• The strength of your explanation for how your project will help prevent and
manage chronic conditions through expanded nutrition services.
• The strength of your plan to coordinate care for patients with inconsistent access
to adequate nutritious food.
• The extent to which you describe how your project will advance the skills and
knowledge of your workforce to support expanded nutrition services.
• The strength of your quality improvement plan to improve patient health
outcomes.
If applicable:
• How well you justify the necessity of the equipment and/or minor A/R costs for
your project.
• The feasibility of your plan to complete all equipment purchases and/or minor A/R
within 12 months of award.
Criterion 3: Collaboration (15 points)
See the project narrative Collaboration section.
The panel will review your application for:
• The strength of your plan to partner with organizations in your service area that
improve patient health through better nutrition.
◦ If applicable, the extent to which you describe how you will leverage the
expertise of Health Center Technical Assistance Programs, such as PCAs,
HCCNs, or NTAPs.
• The extent to which you describe how you will link patients to partners that
support access to healthy food.
• The strength of your project plan to align with and not duplicate federal
programs operating in your service area.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
◦ If there are no federal programs operating in your service area, clearly state
this in your narrative.
Criterion 4: Impact (20 points)
See the project narrative Impact section.
The panel will review your application for:
• The strength of your plan to monitor the impact of your project by the end of the
two-year period of performance, including:
◦ The number of nutrition services patients and/or visits so you can report it
under the nutrition services measure HRSA will add to the 2027 UDS.
◦ Your use of other measures of success to help prevent and manage chronic
conditions.
• The strength of your plan to measure the impact of your project beyond the two-
year period of performance, including:
◦ Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition and Physical Activity for
Children and Adolescents (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 12).
◦ Preventive Care and Screening: Body Mass Index (BMI) Screening and Follow-
Up Plan (UDS Table 6B Quality of Care Measures, Line 13).
◦ The patient health outcomes you identified in your Need and Response
sections.
Criterion 5: Capacity (20 points)
See the project narrative Capacity section.
The panel will review your application for:
• The strength and appropriateness of your skills, expertise, and workforce capacity
to start or expand nutrition services.
• The strength of your approach to assessing patients’ nutritional status,
based on either:
◦ Your current use of screening tools to assess nutritional status; or
◦ Your use of other risk identification screening tools to inform program
development.
• The strength of your description of your capability to implement, monitor, and
adapt your project throughout the period of performance.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Criterion 6: Support requested (5 points)
See the Budget and budget narrative section.
The panel will review your application for:
• The extent to which your budget is detailed and aligns across all documents,
including the SF-424A and the Budget Narrative with Staff Justification Table.
• If you request funding for equipment and/or minor A/R, the extent to which your
Equipment List and/or minor A/R budget justification align with all your budget
documents.
• How reasonable costs are and how well they align with your proposed activities to
meet the ENS objective.
We do not consider voluntary cost sharing during merit review. If you choose to share
in the costs of the project, we will hold you accountable for any funds you add,
including through reporting.
Risk review
Before making an award, we review your award history to assess risk. We need to
ensure all prior awards were managed well and demonstrated sound business
practices. We:
• Review any applicable past performance.
• Review audit reports and findings.
• Analyze the budget.
• Assess your management systems.
• Ensure you continue to be eligible.
• Make sure you comply with any public policies.
We may ask you to submit additional information.
As part of this review, we use SAM.gov Entity Information Responsibility/Qualification
to check your history for all awards likely to be more than $250,000 over the period of
performance. You can comment on your organization’s information in SAM.gov. We’ll
consider your comments before making a decision about your level of risk.
If we find a significant risk, we may choose not to fund your application or to place
specific conditions on the award.
For more details, see 2 CFR § 200.206.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Selection process
When making funding decisions, we consider:
• The amount of available funds.
• Assessed risk.
• Merit review results. These are key in making decisions but are not the only factor.
• The larger portfolio of HRSA-funded projects, including project type and
geographic distribution.
• Alignment with HRSA Mission and Strategic Priorities
We may:
• Fund out of rank order.
• Fund applications in whole or in part.
• Fund applications at a lower amount than requested.
• Choose to fund no applications under this NOFO.
• Adjust award amounts or number of awards based on the number of fundable
applications and final available funding in FY 2027.
You cannot appeal a denial or the amount of funds awarded.
Rural and urban distribution of awards
This program has special consideration(s) based on section 330 of the PHS Act (42
U.S.C. § 254b). We will make aggregate awards in FY 2027 to ensure that the ratio of
rural to urban target populations is not less than two to three or greater than three to
two as required by §330(e)(6)(B) of the PHS Act.
Compliance status
We will review your compliance status before we make funding decisions. You will not
receive funding if:
• You no longer receive H80 funding.
• You have a 30-day condition on your H80 award related to a Health Center
Program requirement.
Additionally, we may not make an award if you are delinquent on two or more Single
Audit Reports.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Award notices
We issue Notices of Award (NOA) on or around the start date listed in the NOFO. See
“how we make awards” in the Application Guide for more information.
By drawing down funds, you accept the terms and conditions of the award.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 5:
Submit Your Application
In this step
Application submission and deadlines 38
Other submissions 38
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Application submission and
deadlines
Your organization’s authorized official must certify your application. See the section on
finding the application package to make sure you have everything you need.
Application deadline
You must submit your application by 09/09/2026, at 11:59 p.m. ET.
Grants.gov creates a date and time record when it receives applications.
If you need a deadline extension, see “requesting a waiver” in the Application Guide.
Submission method
Grants.gov
You must submit your application through Grants.gov. You may do so using Grants.gov
Workspace. This is the preferred method. For alternative online methods, see Applicant
System-to-System.
For instructions on how to submit in Grants.gov, see the Quick Start Guide for
Applicants. Make sure that your application passes the Grants.gov validation checks, or
we may not get it. Do not encrypt, zip, or password protect any files.
If Grants.gov rejects your application due to errors, you must correct and resubmit
before the deadline.
If you want to know more about correcting errors or tracking your application, you can
refer to the Application Guide.
Have questions? Go to Contacts and Support.
Other submissions
Intergovernmental review
If your state has a process, you will need to submit application information for
intergovernmental review under Executive Order 12372. Under this order, states may
design their own processes for obtaining, reviewing, and commenting on some
applications. Some states have this process and others do not.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
To find out your state’s approach, see the list of state single points of contact. If you find
a contact on the list for your state, contact them as soon as you can to learn their
process. If you do not find a contact for your state, you do not need to do anything
further.
This requirement never applies to American Indian and Alaska Native tribes or tribal
organizations.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Step 6:
Learn What Happens After
Award
In this step
Post-award requirements and administration 41
Reporting 45
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Post-award requirements
and administration
Administrative and national policy
requirements
There are important rules you need to know if you get an award. You must follow:
• All terms and conditions in the Notice of Award (NOA). We incorporate this NOFO
by reference.
• The regulations at 2 CFR Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, modifications at 2 CFR
Part 300, and any superseding regulations.
• The HHS Grants Policy Statement (GPS). Your NOA will reference this document. If
there are any exceptions to the GPS, they’ll be listed in your NOA.
• All federal statutes and regulations relevant to federal financial assistance,
including those highlighted in HHS Grants Policy Statement, Appendix D: HHS
Administrative and National Policy Requirements.
• The requirements for performance management in 2 CFR § 200.301.
• All anti-discrimination laws: By applying for or accepting federal funds from HHS,
you certify compliance with all federal antidiscrimination laws and these
requirements. Complying with those laws is a material condition of receiving
federal funding streams. You are responsible for ensuring subrecipients,
contractors, and partners also comply.
Required Alignment with HRSA Mission
and Strategic Priorities
Recipients must use funds awarded under this NOFO to implement program goals or
agency priorities in accordance with the HRSA vision, mission, core values, and
strategic priorities, where authorized by law.
In administering programs under this and all funding announcements, HRSA
prioritizes:
• Evidence-based healthcare: Funding activities supported by rigorous
scientific evidence, particularly for programs serving children and
adolescents, where HRSA is committed to approaches that reflect the
highest standards of clinical care and child safety.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
• Biological and physiological integrity: Recognizing the relevance of
biological sex to health outcomes, HRSA encourages applicants to
account for sex-based health factors in program design, data collection,
and service delivery where scientifically appropriate.
HRSA will implement these priorities consistent with applicable laws,
regulations, court orders, and all required administrative procedures. Applicants
are encouraged to describe how their proposed programs align with these
priorities in their project narratives.
Funded activities must advance HRSA’s vision of protecting and improving the health
and well-being of Americans. The particular focus is on those who are medically
vulnerable or live in areas with limited access to care. HRSA’s duty is to serve wisely,
effectively, and with measurable results that justify every taxpayer dollar invested.
Consistent with HRSA’s priorities, in carrying out any project funded under this NOFO,
the recipient must adhere to the following principles, where they are consistent with
the authority and scope of the award and its activities:
• Gold standard science: Design and deliver services using gold standard evidence-
based and evidence-informed approaches, establish measurable performance
goals, and use data to monitor outcomes and drive continuous improvement.
• Program integrity and fiscal stewardship: Recipients must:
◦ Administer funds in accordance with all applicable federal statutes,
regulations, and award conditions.
◦ Maintain strong internal controls.
◦ Prevent waste, fraud, and abuse.
• Partnership and local leadership: Coordinate with state, tribal, territorial, local,
and community partners, as appropriate, and tailor services to meet community-
identified needs while respecting local decision-making authority.
Recipients must manage any project awarded under this NOFO in accordance with the
following objectives in programs authorized to advance them:
Make America Healthy Again (MAHA): HRSA prioritizes the health and well-being of all
Americans by supporting common-sense, evidence-based health policies that promote:
• Personal responsibility.
• Strong families and communities.
• Proper nutrition.
• The prevention and management of chronic disease, while ensuring access to
high-quality, affordable physical and mental health care.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Child protections, biological integrity, parental rights, and lawful use of funds: HRSA
prioritizes safeguarding children’s health and safety by:
• Not supporting medical interventions for gender dysphoria in minors that lack a
strong evidence base.
• Applying sex-based definitions grounded in biological reality.
• Supporting parental authority, transparency, and choice in education, including
school-based health centers that respect parental rights and religious upbringing.
• Ensuring taxpayer funds are not used to promote or support elective abortions,
consistent with federal law and the Hyde Amendment.
Advancing evidence-based, merit-driven, and ethically grounded health care: HRSA
will prioritize unbiased, transparent science; merit-based workforce opportunities; and
programs that demonstrate measurable outcomes, while deprioritizing organizations
with:
• Conflicts of interest.
• “Harm reduction” models.
• Housing-first approaches.
• Activities that facilitate illegal drug use or unsafe medical practices.
Promoting public safety, lawful use of federal funds, and national health priorities:
To the extent permitted by law, HRSA will align funding with administration priorities
by:
• Supporting ending the HIV epidemic through authorized, evidence-based care.
• Reserving benefits for eligible individuals.
• Preventing illegal immigration and unsafe community practices.
• Prioritizing recipients that enforce public safety, address serious mental illness
and substance use through treatment and recovery, and reduce homelessness
responsibly.
To the extent allowable by law, under awards, HRSA will give priority to states and
municipalities for programs to:
• Enforce prohibitions on open illicit drug use.
• Enforce prohibitions on urban camping and loitering.
• Enforce prohibitions on urban squatting.
• Enforce, and where necessary, adopt, standards that address individuals who are
a danger to themselves or others and suffer from serious mental illness or
substance use disorder, or who are living on the streets and cannot care for
themselves. The approach must be through assisted outpatient treatment or by
moving them into treatment centers or other appropriate facilities through civil
commitment or other available means, to the maximum extent permitted by law.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
HRSA will implement these priorities consistent with applicable laws, regulations, court
orders, and any required procedures.
The recipient must demonstrate ongoing compliance with these priorities, in all
programs that are authorized to advance them, through program design,
implementation, reporting, and evaluation.
Failure to meaningfully align funded activities with the applicable requirements may
result in corrective action, additional reporting requirements, or other actions
consistent with federal grant regulations at 2 CFR Part 200 and the terms and
conditions of this award. This includes termination under 2 CFR § 200.340(a)(4) if an
award no longer effectuates the program goals or agency priorities.
Subawards
If you receive an award, you’ll be responsible for how the project, program, or activity
performs; how you and others spend award funds; reporting; and all other duties as
cited in the NOA.
In general, subrecipients must comply with the award requirements that apply to you.
You must make sure your subrecipients comply with these requirements. See 2 CFR §
200.101 for details.
If you make subawards, you must document that the subrecipient meets all of the
Health Center Program requirements. This includes but is not limited to:
• The policy requirements listed above.
• Requirements in Section 330 of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. § 254b).
• Program regulations found in 42 CFR Part 51c (for CHC) and 42 CFR Part 56 (for
MSAW).
Cybersecurity
If awarded, you must develop plans and procedures, modeled after the NIST
Cybersecurity framework, to protect HHS systems and data. See details here.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
HIT
Successful applicants under this NOFO agree that:
Where award funding involves: Recipients and subrecipients are required
to:
Implementing, acquiring, or upgrading
health IT for activities funded by any entity
Use health IT that meets standards and
implementation specifications adopted in
45 CFR 170, Subpart B, if such standards
and implementation specifications can
support the activity.
Visit to 45 CFR 170, Subpart B learn more.
Implementing, acquiring, or upgrading
health IT for activities by eligible clinicians
in ambulatory settings, or hospitals,
eligible under Sections 4101, 4102, and
4201 of the HITECH Act
Use health IT certified under the ONC
Health IT Certification Program if certified
technology can support the activity.
Visit https://www.healthit.gov/topic/
certification-ehrs/certification-health-it to
learn more.
If standards and implementation specifications adopted in 45 CFR part 170, Subpart B
cannot support the activity, recipients and subrecipients are encouraged to use health
IT that meets non-proprietary standards and implementation specifications developed
by consensus-based standards development organizations. This may include standards
identified in the ONC Interoperability Standards Advisory, available at
https://www.healthit.gov/isp/.
Reporting
If you are funded, you will have to follow the reporting requirements in “reporting”
section of the Application Guide. The NOA will provide specific details.
You must also follow these program-specific reporting requirements:
• Non-Competing Continuation (NCC) – You must include, and we must approve, an
update on this funding as part of your H80 Budget Period Progress Report NCC to
release year two funding. Funding depends upon congressional appropriation,
satisfactory performance, and a determination that continued funding would be in
the government’s best interest. You will receive an email when it is time to begin
working on your H80 NCC.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Contacts and Support
In this step
Agency contacts 47
Help with systems 47
Appendices 49
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Agency contacts
Program and eligibility
Casey Thomas and Lizzet Suarez
Public Health Analysts, Office of Policy and Program Development
Attn: Fiscal Year 2027 Expanding Nutrition Services
Bureau of Primary Health Care
Health Resources and Services Administration
Contact: BPHC Contact Form. Note: Under Applications and Funding, select Notice
of Funding Opportunities (NOFOs), then Expanding Nutrition Services (ENS).
Program and Technical Assistance: ENS TA webpage
Telephone: 301-594-4300
Financial and budget
Clare Oscar
Grants Management Specialist, Division of Grants Management Operations
Office of Federal Assistance and Acquisition Management (OFAAM)
Health Resources and Services Administration
Email: COscar@hrsa.gov
Telephone: 301-443-8862
HRSA contact center
Open Monday to Friday, 7 a.m. through 8 p.m. ET, except for federal holidays.
Call: 877-464-4772 / 877-Go4-HRSA
TTY: 877-897-9910
Help with systems
Grants.gov
Grants.gov provides 24/7 support. You can call 800-518-4726, search the Grants.gov
Knowledge Base, or email Grants.gov for support. Hold on to your ticket number.
SAM.gov
If you need help, you can call 866-606-8220 or live chat with the Federal Service Desk.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Helpful resources
• Application Guide.
• HRSA Grants page.
• HHS Tips for Preparing Grant Proposals.
• Frequently Asked Questions.
• Applicant Training.
• The HRSA Primary Health Care Digest is an email newsletter with Health Center
Program information and updates, including funding opportunities. We encourage
you to have several staff subscribe.
• FTCA Health Center Policy Manual—Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) coverage for
new services and sites is dependent, in part and where applicable, on HRSA
approval of a post-award change in the scope of the project.
• The HRSA-supported Health Center Resource Clearinghouse provides TA resources
for health centers nationwide.
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Appendices
Appendix A: Minor A/R Requirements
You may request to use up to $150,000 of the maximum $350,000 in federal funds in
year 1 for one minor A/R project. Enter the amount for your minor A/R request on the
Construction row of the SF-424A: Budget Information Form.
The total federal and non-federal cost of the A/R project must be less than $1,000,000,
excluding the cost of moveable equipment. You must complete the minor A/R in year 1
of your project.
You may not use one-time funding for new construction activities, such as:
• Additions or expansions
• Site work outside of gardens, for example, sidewalks or new parking surfaces
• Installation of trailers or prefabricated modular units
• Major A/R
You can only conduct minor A/R at a single in-scope service delivery site.
Costs to attach equipment, flooring, paint, or carpet are minor A/R. Permanently affixed
equipment is part of a minor A/R project. This includes heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, generators, and lighting. Include these costs in your minor A/R project
budget.
An allowable minor A/R project must be a stand-alone project. This consists of work in
an existing facility required to:
• Install fixed equipment
• Modernize, improve, and/or reconfigure the interior arrangements or other
physical characteristics of a facility
• Repair and/or replace the exterior envelope
• Improve accessibility such as curb cuts, ramps, or widening doorways
• Address life safety requirements
If you request one-time funding for minor A/R, attach to your application:
• Minor A/R Project Cover Page
• Environmental Information Documentation (EID) Checklist
• Minor A/R Budget Justification
• Other Requirements for Sites Form
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Appendix B: Example Allowable Food
Costs
With approval from HRSA, you may use ENS funding to support food-related costs that
are necessary for the proposed activities. See the examples below.
Supplies
• Food items for meal planning and cooking demonstrations
• Food to be prepared during or after nutrition education activities, such as cooking
classes
• Plants or seeds for use in health center food gardens
Contracts
• Contracting with organizations to hold healthy cooking classes (with consumption
of healthy food that is cooked)
• Contracting with farmers or grocers to fulfill counseling guidance and food
prescriptions with healthy food not readily accessible to the patient
Equipment
• Purchase of a vehicle to support nutrition education activities by transporting
patients and staff, moving food, or delivering ingredients to fulfill food
prescriptions
• Kitchen equipment to support instructional cooking programs
• Portable greenhouses
Minor A/R
• Creation of food sample pantries
◦ Health centers must have internal policies that govern food distribution
• Creation of space to distribute food from a contracted farm or grocer
• Creation of a rooftop food garden on existing health center property
• Creation of a food garden bed (raised or not raised) on existing health center property
• Creation of a teaching kitchen
Transportation
• To nutrition services at the health center
• To support patient nutrition education, for example, trips to grocery stores, farms,
or community education facilities
Endnotes 51
1. Review 2. Get Ready 3. Build 4. Understand 5. Submit 6. Award Contacts
Endnotes
1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2025). https://www.cdc.gov/chronic-disease/data-
surveillance/index.html ↑
2. The MAHA Report. (2025). https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/MAHA-Report-
The-White-House.pdf ↑