This program announcement must be read in conjunction with the General Application
Instructions, version CD26_01.
Program Announcement for the Defense Health Agency
Breast Cancer Research Program
Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2
Funding Opportunity Number: HT942526BCRPBTA122
Pre-Application Due: November 4, 2026
Application Due: November 18, 2026
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 2
Content
Before You Begin 3
Basic Information
Summarizes the funding opportunity, funding details, submission deadlines and
review dates
4
Eligibility
Details eligibility factors for the applicant organization and Principal Investigator
5
Program Description
Describes the program mission and intent of the Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and
2; provides key award information and considerations; and outlines funding details
6
Application Contents
Presents the two-step application process and instructions for preparing a
pre-application and full application
10
Submission Requirements
Provides locations for application packages, instructions for submitting pre-
applications and full applications, and describes application verification
18
Application Review Information
Outlines the processes for application compliance review, pre-application and full
application selection/notification, and risk assessment. Also, details the review
criteria for pre-application screening and both tiers of the CDMRP application
review process – Peer Review and Programmatic Review
21
Federal Award Notices
Outlines what a successful applicant can expect if recommended for funding
26
Post-Award Requirements
References policy requirements for funded research; outlines reporting
requirements and restrictions related to Principal Investigator changes and
institutional award transfers
27
Other Information
Outlines criteria for administrative actions including application rejection,
modification, withdrawal and withhold
29
Appendix 1
Includes a checklist for all full application components to facilitate application
submission
31
Appendix 2
Acronym List
32
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 3
Before You Begin
• Active SAM.gov, eBRAP.org and Grants.gov registrations are required for application
submission. User registration for each of these websites can take several weeks or longer.
Each applicant must ensure their registrations are active and up to date prior to application
preparation.
• Read this funding opportunity announcement in the order it is written before
beginning to prepare application materials. It is the responsibility of the applicant to
determine whether the proposed research meets the intent of this funding opportunity and
that all parties meet eligibility requirements.
• To support application preparation, additional resources are available including an
application process FAQ, a Guide for Intragovernmental & Intramural Applicants and a
CDMRP Video Series detailing the application process.
Who to Contact for Support
This document uses internal links; you can go back to where you were by pressing the
Alt + left arrow keys (Windows) or command + left arrow keys (Macintosh) on your keyboard.
Click to be taken to additional guidance and instructions within
the General Application Instructions (GAI).
eBRAP Help Desk
301-682-5507
help@eBRAP.org
Questions regarding
funding opportunity submission
requirements,
as well as technical assistance
related to pre-application or
intramural application submission.
Grants.gov Support Center
800-518-4726
International: 1-606-545-5035
support@grants.gov
Questions regarding
Grants.gov registration
and Workspace.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 4
1. Basic Information About the Funding Opportunity
Summary: The fiscal year 2026 (FY26) Breast Cancer Research Program (BCRP)
Breakthrough Award mechanism supports promising research with high potential to lead to or
make breakthroughs in breast cancer. All applications must address at least one of the FY26
BCRP overarching challenges or provide adequate justification for exception. Applications must
address the challenge in a way that can lead to a breakthrough and have major impact. The
FY26 Breakthrough Award mechanism contains four different funding levels designed to support
major (but not all) stages of research that will lead to clinical application. Each level specifies a
distinct research scope. This program announcement discusses the Breakthrough Award
Levels 1 and 2.
Distinctive Features:
• This funding mechanism allows for applications submitted under Funding Level 1 or
Funding Level 2. Funding Level 2 also includes a Population Science Studies option.
With compelling justification, population science studies may request higher levels of
funding and an additional year in the period of performance.
• This funding mechanism allows for a single Principal Investigator (PI), or two
partnering PIs referred to as the Initiating PI and the Partnering PI. For the Partnering
PI Option (PPIO), only the Initiating PI will submit a pre-application, but both PIs will need to
submit at the full application stage. Be advised, failure to submit all associated (Initiating and
Partnering PI) applications by the deadline may result in administrative withdrawal.
Funding Details: The Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs (CDMRP) expects
to allot roughly $10.6 million (M) to fund approximately 6 Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2
applications with total cost caps of $0.75M (single PI) or $1.25M (PPIO) for Level 1; $1.65M
(single PI) or $2.5M (PPIO) for Level 2; and $2.5M (single PI) or $3.35M (PPIO) for Level 2 –
Population Science Studies. The maximum period of performance is three years for
Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 and four years for Breakthrough Award Level 2 –
Population Science Studies. It is anticipated that awards made from this FY26 funding
opportunity will be funded with FY26 funds, which will expire for use on September 30, 2032.
Awards supported with FY26 funds will be made no later than September 30, 2027.
Submission and Review Dates and Times
• Pre-Application (Letter of Intent) Submission Deadline: 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET),
November 4, 2026
• Application Submission Deadline: 11:59 p.m. ET, November 18, 2026
• End of Application Verification Period: 5:00 p.m. ET, November 25, 2026
• Peer Review: January 2027
• Programmatic Review: March 2027
Announcement Type: Initial
Funding Opportunity Number: HT942526BCRPBTA122
Assistance Listing Number: 12.420
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 5
2. Eligibility Information
2.1. Eligible Applicants
2.1.1. Organization
Extramural and intramural U.S. Department of War (DOW) organizations are eligible to apply,
including foreign and domestic organizations, for-profit and nonprofit organizations, and
public or private entities.
2.1.2. Principal Investigator
Investigators affiliated with an eligible organization are eligible to be named PI, Initiating PI or
Partnering PI on the application, regardless of ethnicity, nationality or citizenship status.
Applications naming post-doctoral fellows as PI are encouraged. A Mentorship Statement
(Attachment 8) is required for all applications submitted with a PI who is a postdoctoral fellow.
An investigator may only be named on one application as PI or Initiating PI and one additional
application as a Partnering PI for the Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 mechanism.
Investigators named as PI, Initiating PI or Partnering PI on an application submitted
under funding opportunity HT942526BCRPBTA12 are not eligible to submit a pre-
application or full application for the same research project under this current funding
opportunity.
2.2. Cost Sharing
Cost sharing is not an eligibility requirement.
2.3. Other
Awards are made to eligible organizations, not to individuals. Refer to the GAI for additional
recipient qualification requirements.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 6
3. Program Description
The Defense Health Agency Contracting Activity (DHACA) is soliciting applications to this
funding opportunity using delegated authority provided by United States Code, Title 10, Section
4001 (10 USC 4001). The CDMRP is the program office managing this FY26 funding
opportunity as part of the BCRP. The CDMRP is located within the Defense Health Agency
Research and Development (DHA R&D), which is a part of the Department of Defense, DOD,
herein referred to using the secondary title Department of War, DOW. Congress initiated the
BCRP in FY92 to support innovative, high-impact, research with a mission of ending breast
cancer for Service Members and their Families, Veterans, and the general public. Appropriations
for the BCRP from FY92 through FY25 totaled $4.52 billion. The FY26 appropriation is $145M.
The BCRP challenges the scientific community to design research that will address the urgency
of ending breast cancer. Specifically, the BCRP seeks to accelerate high-impact research with
clinical relevance, encourage innovation and stimulate creativity, and facilitate productive
collaborations.
The BCRP brief overview called The Breast Cancer Landscape describes what is currently
known about the most pertinent topics that are consistent with the BCRP’s mission of ending
breast cancer. Considering the current breast cancer landscape and the program’s mission, the
BCRP seeks to invest in research that addresses the following FY26 BCRP overarching
challenges:
• Prevent breast cancer (primary prevention)
• Identify determinants of breast cancer initiation, risk, or susceptibility
• Distinguish deadly from non-deadly breast cancers
• Conquer the problems of overdiagnosis and overtreatment
• Identify what drives breast cancer growth; determine how to stop it
• Identify why some breast cancers become metastatic
• Determine why/how breast cancer cells lie dormant for years and then re-emerge; determine
how to prevent lethal recurrence
• Revolutionize treatment regimens by replacing them with ones that do all of the following:
improve survival, are more effective, and are less toxic
• Eliminate the mortality associated with metastatic breast cancer
3.1. Intent of the Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2
The intent of the FY26 BCRP Breakthrough Award is to support promising research with high
potential to lead to or make breakthroughs in breast cancer.
The FY26 BCRP Breakthrough Award contains four different funding levels, each intended to
support a defined research scope. It is the responsibility of the PI to select the level that aligns
with the scope of the proposed research. The PI should select the funding level based on the
research scope defined in the program announcement, and not on the amount of the budget.
The BCRP will not recommend for funding an application that does not meet the intent of
the funding level selected, even if it might meet the intent of a different funding level.
This program announcement discusses the FY26 BCRP Breakthrough Award Levels 1
and 2 (BTA12).
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 7
• Funding Level 1: This funding level supports innovative, high-risk/high-reward research that
is in the earliest stages of idea development or is an untested theory that addresses an
important problem. To foster research that yields new avenues of investigation, this level
does not require preliminary data. Proof of concept is the anticipated outcome.
• Funding Level 2: This funding level supports research already supported by substantial
preliminary or published data in breast cancer and strongly validates clinical translation in a
well-defined context within The Breast Cancer Landscape.
• Funding Level 2: Population Science Studies: The studies should focus on the analysis
of human data and biospecimens. Research already supported by substantial preliminary or
published data in breast cancer and strongly validates clinical translation in a well-defined
context within The Breast Cancer Landscape. With compelling justification, population
science studies may request higher levels of funding and an additional year in the period of
performance.
3.1.1. Key Elements for the BTA12
Impact: Proposed research must have the potential for a major impact and accelerate progress
toward ending breast cancer. The near-term and/or long-term impact must move beyond a
minor advancement and have the potential to lead to a fundamentally new strategy or approach
to preventing or ending breast cancer that is significantly more effective than current strategies
or approaches. Applications must identify the breast cancer patients or at-risk individuals who
would ultimately benefit from the proposed research.
Overarching Challenges: Considering the current breast cancer landscape and the BCRP’s
mission, all applications must address at least one of the above overarching challenges or
provide adequate justification for exception.1 Simply identifying an overarching challenge is not
sufficient. Applications must address the challenge in a way that can lead to or make a
breakthrough and have a major impact. The BCRP strongly urges applicants to read and
consider The Breast Cancer Landscape before preparing their applications.
Personnel: Applications must include an appropriate and robust research team with the
combined backgrounds and breast cancer-related expertise to enable successful conduct of the
project.
Partnering PI Option: The BTA12 PPIO encourages applications that include meaningful and
productive partnerships between two PIs. One PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be
responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission.
The other PI will be identified as the Partnering PI. Both PIs should contribute significantly to the
development and execution of the proposed research project. The PIs may have expertise in
similar or disparate scientific disciplines, but each PI must bring distinct contributions to the
application. The application should clearly demonstrate that both PIs have equal intellectual
input into the design of the project and will devote similar levels of effort to the conduct of the
project. The application should balance funding between both PIs unless appropriately justified.
The PPIO encourages, but does not require, new partnerships. The application should describe
how the PIs’ unique expertise combined as a partnership will better address the research
question, how the unique expertise that each individual brings to the application is critical for the
research strategy and completion of the proposed project, and why the work should be done
together rather than through separate efforts. Applications do not meet the intent of the
PPIO if a mentor and their current postdoctoral fellow or junior investigator are named as
1 With adequate justification, applications may identify and address another overarching challenge related
to The Breast Cancer Landscape. Investigators must provide justification in the application.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 8
Initiating and Partnering PIs. Applications where one PI is providing samples, animal models,
or investigational agents, while the other PI is conducting most or all of the experiments and
analyses, do not meet the intent of the PPIO. If recommended for funding, each PI will be
named on separate awards to the recipient organization(s). Each award will be subject to
separate reporting, regulatory, and administrative requirements. For individual submission
requirements for the Initiating and Partnering PIs, refer to Section 5.3, Submission Instructions.
3.1.2. Other Important Considerations for the BTA12
Clinical research including projects involving human data, human anatomical substances,
and/or interaction with human subjects is permitted. However, clinical trials are not allowed
within this funding opportunity.
In accordance with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026, Section 732,
CDMRP does not support the conduct of painful research (U.S. Department of Agriculture pain
category D or E) involving domestic cats or dogs, except for studies relating to military or
service animals.
All projects should adhere to a core set of standards for rigorous study design and reporting to
maximize the reproducibility and translational potential of clinical and preclinical research, such
as those described in the STROBE, CONSORT, SPIRIT and ARRIVE 2.0 guidelines.
The proposed research must be relevant to Service Members, Veterans, their Families,
and/or the American Public. PIs are encouraged to integrate and/or align their research
projects with DOW and/or VA research laboratories and programs. Collaboration with the DOW
and/or VA is also encouraged. A list of websites that may be useful in identifying additional
information about ongoing DOW and VA areas of research interest or potential opportunities for
collaboration can be found in Appendix 10 of the GAI.
A congressionally mandated Metastatic Cancer Task Force was formed with the purpose of
identifying ways to help accelerate clinical and translational research aimed at extending the
lives of advanced state and recurrent patients. As a member of the Metastatic Cancer Task
Force, the CDMRP encourages applicants to review the task force recommendations and
submit research ideas to address these recommendations provided they are within the
limitations of this funding opportunity and align with the FY26 BCRP priorities.
3.2. Funding Instrument
The funding instrument for awards made under the program announcement will be grants
(31 USC 6304).
3.3. Funding Details
The requested funding level should be aligned with the scope of the research proposed
and the funding level description.
Funding Level 1 (Single PI or Partnering PI Option):
Period of Performance: The maximum period of performance is three years.
Cost Cap: For applications with a single PI, the application’s total costs budgeted for the entire
period of performance should not exceed $750,000. For PPIO Applications, the application’s
total costs budgeted for the entire period of performance should not exceed $1.25M.
Funding Level 2 (Single PI or Partnering PI Option):
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 9
Period of Performance: The maximum period of performance is three years.
Cost Cap: For applications with a single PI, the application’s total costs budgeted for the entire
period of performance should not exceed $1.65M. For PPIO Applications, the application’s total
costs budgeted for the entire period of performance should not exceed $2.5M.
Funding Level 2 – Population Science Studies (Single PI or Partnering PI Option):
Period of Performance: The maximum period of performance is four years.
Cost Cap: For applications with a single PI, the application’s total costs budgeted for the entire
period of performance should not exceed $2.5M. For PPIO Applications, the application’s total
costs budgeted for the entire period of performance should not exceed $3.35M.
For All Funding Level 1 and 2 Applications:
If indirect cost rates have been negotiated, indirect costs are to be budgeted in accordance with
the organization’s negotiated rate. Collaborating organizations should budget associated
indirect costs in accordance with each organization’s negotiated rate.
All direct and indirect costs of any subaward or contract must be included in the direct costs of
the primary award.
The applicant may request the entire maximum funding amount for a project that may have a
period of performance less than the maximum three or four years.
The appropriateness of the budget for the proposed research will be assessed during peer
review.
For Partnering PI Option Applications: A separate award will be made to each PI’s
organization.
Applications Submitted With a PI Who is a Postdoctoral Fellow: The PI of the award is
expected to manage the budget during the award period, not their mentor.
Direct Cost Restrictions: For this award mechanism, direct costs:
May be requested for (not all-inclusive):
• Costs for one investigator to travel to one scientific/technical meeting per year. The intent of
travel to scientific/technical meetings should be to present project information or disseminate
project results from the FY26 BCRP Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2.
Must not be requested for:
• Clinical trial costs.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 10
4. Application Contents and Format
4.1. Application Overview
Application submission is a two-step process requiring both a pre-application submitted via the
Electronic Biomedical Research Application Portal (eBRAP) and a full application submitted
through eBRAP or Grants.gov. Depending on the submission portal, certain aspects of the
application will differ.
Intramural DOW organizations submitting a full application should follow
instructions for submission through eBRAP.
Extramural organizations submitting a full application must follow instructions for
submission through Grants.gov.
4.2. Pre-Application Components
The PI or Initiating PI must submit the following pre-application component.
Letter of Intent (LOI) (one-page limit): Provide a brief description of the research to be
conducted. Include the overarching challenge(s) under which the application will be submitted.
4.3. Full Application Components
PPIO: The CDMRP requires separate full application package submissions for the Initiating PI
and each Partnering PI, even if the PIs are located within the same organization. The
application submission process for the Partnering PI uses an abbreviated full application
package.
4.3.1 Full Application Components for the PI or Initiating PI
Each application submission must include the completed full application package for this
program announcement. See Appendix 1 for a checklist of the full application components.
(a) SF424 Research & Related Application for Federal Assistance Form (Grants.gov
submissions only):
IMPORTANT: When completing the SF424 R&R, enter the eBRAP log number assigned
during pre-application submission into Block 4a – Federal Identifier.
(b) Attachments:
Each attachment of the full application components must be uploaded as an individual file in
the format specified and in accordance with the formatting guidelines in the GAI.
○ Attachment 1: Project Narrative: Upload as “ProjectNarrative.pdf”.
Page Limit: The page limits for the Project Narrative are dependent upon the
funding level of the application:
Funding Level 1: Seven-page limit
Funding Level 2: 14-page limit
Funding Level 2 – Population Science Studies: 14-page limit
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 11
Outline for Project Narrative: Describe the proposed project in detail using the outline
below.
Background: Briefly describe the ideas and reasoning on which the proposed work
is based. For Funding Level 1 applications, preliminary data are not required, but
may be included. For Funding Level 2 applications, provide sufficient preliminary
data in breast cancer to support the feasibility of the work proposed. Whether or not
preliminary data are available, the application must demonstrate logical reasoning
and provide a sound scientific rationale for the proposed project as established
through a critical review and analysis of published literature. If proposing translational
or clinical research, describe the studies showing proof of concept and, if applicable,
efficacy in an in vivo system.
Hypothesis/Objective: State the hypothesis to be tested or the objective to be
reached.
Specific Aims: Concisely explain the specific aims of the study.
Research Strategy: Describe the experimental design, methods and analyses,
including appropriate controls in sufficient detail for evaluation. Explain how this
research strategy will meet the research goals and milestones. Address potential
pitfalls and problem areas, and present alternative methods and approaches.
Applications proposing translational research should provide a well-developed, well-
integrated, and detailed research plan that supports the translational feasibility and
promise of the approach. If the methodology is new or unusual, provide sufficient
details for evaluation. If using human subjects or human biological samples, describe
the study population and provide a detailed plan for the recruitment of human
subjects or the acquisition of samples. Where relevant, describe the accessibility to
the data, samples, and/or cohort(s) necessary for the project, and provide
appropriate letters of support in Attachment 2: Supporting Documentation. Describe
data reporting procedures and plans to assure that the documentation will support a
regulatory filing with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or an equivalent
international regulatory agency, if applicable. Consult appropriate guidelines to
ensure relevant aspects of rigorous and reproducible research are adequately
planned for and, ultimately, reported.
For all applications proposing clinical research, describe the strategy for the inclusion
of women and minorities appropriate to the objectives of the study, including a
description of the composition of the proposed study population in terms of sex,
racial, and ethnic group, and an accompanying rationale for the selection of subjects.
Studies utilizing human biospecimens or datasets that cannot be linked to a specific
individual, ethnicity or race (typically classified as exempt from Institutional Review
Board [IRB] review) are exempt from this requirement. Anticipated enrollment
table(s) with the proposed enrollment distributed on the basis of sex, race and
ethnicity should be provided as part of the application’s Supporting Documentation
(Attachment 2).
Statistical Plan: Describe the statistical plan including power analysis, as
appropriate, for the research project.
Research Team: Describe how the combined backgrounds and breast cancer-
related expertise of the research team will enable successful conduct of the project.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 12
○ Attachment 2: Supporting Documentation: Combine and upload as a single
file named “Support.pdf”.
There are no page limits for these components unless otherwise noted. Include only
components described below; inclusion of items not requested or viewed as an
extension of the Project Narrative will result in the removal of those items or may result
in administrative withdrawal of the application.
References Cited: List the references cited in the Project Narrative using a standard
reference format (include URLs, if available).
List of Abbreviations, Acronyms and Symbols: Provide a list of abbreviations,
acronyms and symbols.
Facilities, Existing Equipment and Other Resources: Describe the facilities and
equipment available for performance of the proposed project; include any additional
facilities or equipment proposed for acquisition at no cost to the award. Indicate
whether government-furnished facilities or equipment are proposed for use. If so,
reference the original or present government award under which the facilities or
equipment items are now accountable. There is not a standardized form for this
information.
Publications and/or Patents: Include a list of relevant publication URLs and/or
patent abstracts. If articles are not publicly available, then copies of up to five
published manuscripts may be included in Attachment 2. Extra items will not be
reviewed.
Letters of Support: Provide individual letters signed by collaborating individuals
and/or organizational officials demonstrating that the PI has the support and
resources necessary for the proposed work. Letters from the PI’s Department Chair,
or appropriate organization official, should also confirm that the PI(s) meet eligibility
criteria. If applicable, provide a letter of support, signed by the lowest-ranking person
with approval authority, confirming participation of intramural DOW collaborator(s)
and/or access to military populations, databases or DOW resources. If applicable,
provide a letter of support signed by the VA Facility Director(s), or an individual
designated by the VA Facility Director(s), confirming access to VA patients, resources
and/or VA research space.
Letters of Recommendation (only applicable and required for applications
submitted with a PI who is a postdoctoral fellow; one-page limit is
recommended): The mentor(s) should provide a letter of recommendation on
organizational letterhead describing:
▪ The degree to which the PI participated in the development of the research idea.
▪ How well the PI can manage the technical and administrative aspects of the
award.
▪ How well the PI can successfully accomplish the proposed research.
Intellectual and Material Property Plan (if applicable): Provide a plan for resolving
intellectual and material property issues among participating organizations.
Research Sharing Plan: Describe the type of data or research resources to be
made publicly available as a result of the proposed work. Describe the mechanism
(e.g., direct sharing, repository, mixed mode) by which data and resources generated
during the period of performance will be shared with the research community and
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 13
other affected communities, including clinical research participants. If applicable,
include the name of the repository(ies) where scientific data and resources arising
from the proposed study will be archived. Identify and provide the rationale for any
data or resources that will not be shared (e.g., for intellectual property, feasibility,
cost, or other considerations). The plan should also protect participant privacy,
confidential and proprietary data, and performer/third-party intellectual property.
Provide a milestone plan for disseminating data/results including when data and
resources will be made available to other users. In cases where the study participant
could potentially derive medical or other benefit from the information, explain whether
the results of screening and/or study participation will be shared with the participant
or their primary care provider, including results from any screening or diagnostic
tests performed as part of the study.
Do not submit a copy of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Data
Management and Sharing Plan or duplicate the Data Management Plan which
will be requested only after a recommendation for funding is made.
Refer to the CDMRP Directive on Sharing Data and Research Resources for more
information about the CDMRP’s expectations for making data and research
resources publicly available.
Inclusion Enrollment Report (only required if clinical research is proposed):
Provide an anticipated enrollment table(s) for the inclusion of women and minorities
using the “Public Health Service (PHS) Inclusion Enrollment Report”, a three-page
fillable PDF form, that can be downloaded from eBRAP. The enrollment table(s)
should be appropriate to the objectives of the study with the proposed enrollment
distributed on the basis of sex, race, and ethnicity. Studies utilizing human
biospecimens or datasets that cannot be linked to a specific individual, ethnicity, or
race (typically classified as exempt from IRB review) are exempt from this
requirement.
Sex as a Biological Variable (SABV) Strategy (two-page limit is recommended):
Describe the strategy for how sex will be considered as a biological variable. This
strategy should include a brief discussion of what is currently known regarding sex
differences in the applicable research area. Clearly articulate how sex as a biological
variable will be factored into the data analysis plan and how data will be collected
and disaggregated by sex. If needed, provide a strong rationale for proposing a
single-sex study, based on justification from scientific literature, preliminary data or
other relevant considerations. Refer to the CDMRP Directive on Sex as a Biological
Variable in Research for additional information.
○ Attachment 3: Technical Abstract (one-page limit): Upload as “TechAbs.pdf”.
Write the technical abstract using the outline below. Clarity and completeness within
the space limits are highly important.
Background: Present the scientific rationale behind the proposed research project.
Overarching Challenge(s): State the overarching challenge(s) that the proposed
research will test and briefly state how the project will address the challenge in a way
that can lead to or make a breakthrough and have a major impact. Simply identifying
an overarching challenge is not sufficient.
Hypothesis/Objective(s): State the hypothesis to be tested and/or objective(s) to be
reached. Provide evidence or rationale that supports hypothesis/objective.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 14
Specific Aims: State the specific aims of the study.
Study Design: Describe the study design, including appropriate controls.
Impact: Describe how the proposed project will lead to a major impact for the
overarching challenge(s). Explain how the research meets the requirements for high
potential to lead to or make a breakthrough and accelerate progress toward ending
breast cancer.
Military Relevance: Describe how the study is relevant to military health.
Innovation (required for Level 1 applications only): Explain how the proposed
research is innovative and will investigate a novel idea or research question that
introduces a new paradigm or challenges existing paradigms.
○ Attachment 4: Lay Abstract (one-page limit): Upload as “LayAbs.pdf”.
The lay abstract should address the points outlined below in a manner that is
readily understood by readers without a background in science or medicine. Avoid
overuse of scientific jargon, acronyms and abbreviations. Do not duplicate the
technical abstract.
– Clearly describe the scientific rationale, objective and aims of the application.
– Describe the ultimate applicability of the research.
▪ Which overarching challenge(s) does this research address?
▪ What types of patients or at-risk individuals will the research help and how will it
help them?
▪ What are the potential clinical applications, benefits and risks?
▪ What is the projected timeline for achieving a patient-related outcome?
▪ How will the proposed project lead to or make a breakthrough in breast cancer
and accelerate progress toward the BCRP’s mission of ending breast cancer?
▪ If the research is too basic for clinical applicability, describe the interim outcomes.
▪ What is the potential benefit of the proposed study and the anticipated outcomes
to Service Members, Veterans and/or their Families?
○ Attachment 5: Statement of Work (three-page limit): Upload as “SOW.pdf”.
Refer to eBRAP for the Suggested SOW Format.
For guidance on preparing the SOW, refer to the Example: Assembling a Generic
Statement of Work. Include milestones for data or research resource(s) sharing.
Partnering PI Option: Each PI must submit an identical copy of a jointly created
SOW. The specific contributions of the Initiating PI and the Partnering PI should
be clearly noted for each task.
○ Attachment 6: Impact Statement (300 words or less recommended; one-page
limit): Upload as “Impact.pdf”.
The statement should address the points outlined below written in a manner that is
readily understood by readers without a background in science or medicine. DO
NOT restate the research strategy as part of the Impact Statement.
– Articulate concisely how the proposed project will have a major impact on at least
one of the overarching challenges.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 15
– Explain how the project meets the requirement for high potential to accelerate
progress toward ending breast cancer substantially beyond an incremental advance.
– Explain briefly how the proposed research will lead to a fundamentally new strategy
or approach to preventing or ending breast cancer that is significantly more effective
than current strategies or approaches.
– Identify the breast cancer patients or at-risk individuals who would ultimately benefit
from the proposed research. Justify how these individuals would benefit from the
project.
– Explain briefly how the proposed research is relevant to Service Members, Veterans,
and their Families.
○ Attachment 7: Partnership Statement (one-page limit): Upload as
“Partnership.pdf”. (Attachment 7 is only applicable and required for applications
submitted under the Partnering PI Option.)
Describe the partnership and combined expertise of the Initiating and Partnering PIs that
are critical for the research strategy and completion of the proposed work. Explain how
the partnership will better address the research question and why the work should be
done together rather than through separate efforts. Explain how both PIs have equal
intellectual input into the design of the project and will devote similar levels of effort to
the conduct of the project. Explain the plan to balance funding between both PIs or
otherwise provide appropriate justification.
○ Attachment 8: Mentorship Statement (one-page limit): Upload as
“Mentorship.pdf”. (Attachment 8 is only applicable and required for applications
in which the PI is a postdoctoral fellow.)
Identify the PI’s mentor(s) and provide a description of their qualifications to mentor the
PI in the successful execution and completion of the proposed work. Describe the
mentor’s experience in breast cancer research and their success in research projects
relevant to the current application. Describe the mentor’s commitment to the PI’s project,
including details of their proposed interactions with the PI and how they will support the
PI’s research endeavors.
o Attachment 9: Innovation Statement (one-page limit): Upload as “Innovation.pdf”.
(Attachment 9 is only applicable and required for applications submitted under
Funding Level 1.)
Explain how the proposed research addresses breast cancer in a fundamentally new
way. Innovation requires a novel idea or approach that either introduces an entirely new
paradigm or challenges existing paradigms in unprecedented ways. It will result in a
creative, but scientifically sound, transformation from existing approaches, methods or
strategies. The next step in an established process or targeting strategy, or building on
significant preliminary data, does not meet the criteria for innovation.
○ Attachment 10: Representations (Grants.gov submissions only): Upload as
“RequiredReps.pdf”. All extramural applicants must complete and submit the
Required Representations document available on eBRAP.
○ Attachment 11: Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget Form (if
applicable): Upload as “IGBudget.pdf”. If an intramural DOW organization will
be a collaborator in the performance of the project, complete a separate budget for that
organization using the Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget form available
on eBRAP.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 16
(c) Additional Application Materials:
The following are additional forms for application submission. Follow the instructions specific
to the submission portal, as found within the GAI.
i. Research & Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded)
○ Biographical Sketch
○ Current/Pending Support
Intragovernmental applicants must include their internally supported research and
development programs.
ii. Research & Related Budget
Partnering PI Option: Initiating and Partnering PIs must have a separate budget and
justification specific to their distinct portions of the effort that the applicant organization
will submit as separate Grants.gov or eBRAP application packages. The Initiating PI
should not include budget information for Partnering PI(s), or vice versa, even if they
are located within the same organization. Refer to Section 3.3, Funding Details, for
detailed budget information.
iii. Project/Performance Site Location(s)
iv. Research & Related Subaward Budget Attachment(s) (if applicable, Grants.gov
submissions only)
4.3.2. Full Application Components for the Partnering PI
Refer to the equivalent attachment above for details specific to each of the following application
components. See Appendix 1 for a checklist of the full application components required for the
Partnering PI.
(a) SF424 Research & Related Application for Federal Assistance Form (Grants.gov
Submissions Only):
(b) Attachments:
○ Attachment 5: Statement of Work (three-page limit): Upload as “SOW.pdf”. Each PI
must submit an identical copy of a jointly created SOW.
○ Attachment 8: Mentorship Statement (one-page limit): Upload as
“Mentorship.pdf”. (Attachment 8 is only applicable and required for applications
in which the PI is a postdoctoral fellow.)
Identify the PI’s mentor(s) and provide a description of their qualifications to mentor the
PI in the successful execution and completion of the proposed work. Describe the
mentor’s experience in breast cancer research and their success in research projects
relevant to the current application. Describe the mentor’s commitment to the PI’s project,
including details of their proposed interactions with the PI and how they will support the
PI’s research endeavors.
External Link to the GAI
Grants.gov
External Link to the GAI
eBRAP.org
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 17
○ Attachment 10: Representations (Grants.gov submissions only): Upload as
“RequiredReps.pdf”.
○ Attachment 11: Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget Form: Upload as
“IGBudget.pdf”.
(c) Additional Application Materials:
The following are additional forms for application submission. Follow the instructions specific
to the submission portal, as found within the GAI.
i. Research & Related Senior/Key Person Profile
○ Biographical Sketch
○ Current/Pending Support
Intragovernmental applicants must include their internally supported research and
development programs.
ii. Research & Related Budget
Initiating and Partnering PIs must have a separate budget and justification specific to
their distinct portions of the effort that the applicant organization will submit as separate
Grants.gov or eBRAP application packages. The Partnering PI should not include budget
information for the Initiating PI, or vice versa, even if they are located within the same
organization. Refer to Section 3.3, Funding Details, for detailed budget information.
iii. Project/Performance Site Location(s)
iv. Research & Related Subaward Budget Attachment(s) (if applicable, Grants.gov
submissions only)
4.4. Other Application Elements
If recommended for funding, a data management plan compliant with Section 3.c,
Enclosure 3, DoD Instructions 3200.12 will be requested.
The government reserves the right to request a revised budget, budget justification and/or
additional information for applications recommended for funding.
External Link to the GAI
Grants.gov
External Link to the GAI
eBRAP.org
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 18
5. Submission Requirements
5.1. Location of Application Package
Download the application package components for HT942526BCRPBTA122 from Grants.gov or
eBRAP, depending on which submission portal will be used.
5.2. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management
The applicant organization must be registered as an entity in the System for Award
Management (SAM), SAM.gov, and receive confirmation of an “Active” status before
submitting an application through Grants.gov. Organizations must include the unique entity
identifier (UEI) generated by the SAM in applications to this funding opportunity and maintain an
active registration in the SAM at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an
application under consideration.
5.3. Submission Instructions
The CDMRP uses two portal systems to accept pre- and full application submissions. The
workflow below shows which portal system to use for pre- and full application submissions,
respectively.
Application Submission Workflow
5.3.1. Pre-Application Submission
All pre-application components must be submitted by the PI or Initiating PI through
eBRAP, including the submission of contact information for the Partnering PI if selecting a
Partnering PI Option.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 19
During the pre-application process, eBRAP assigns each submission a unique log number. This
unique log number is required during the full application submission process. The eBRAP log
number, application title and all information for the PI, Business Official(s), performing
organization, and contracting organization must be consistent throughout the entire pre-
application and full application submission process. Inconsistencies may delay application
processing and limit or negate the ability to view, modify and verify the application in eBRAP.
Contact the eBRAP Help Desk if any changes need to be made.
Partnering PI Option: After the Initiating PI confirms submission of the pre-application, the
Partnering PI will be notified of the pre-application submission via an email from eBRAP. The
Partnering PI must follow the instructions provided in the email to associate the
partnering pre-application with their eBRAP account. If not previously registered, the
Partnering PI must register in eBRAP.
Partnering PIs should not initiate a new pre-application based on the same research
project submitted by the Initiating PI. Partnering PIs are urged to associate the partnering
pre-application with their eBRAP account as soon as possible. If this is not completed by the full
application deadline:
• Any intramural Partnering PI will not be able to submit their full application package
components to eBRAP.
• The Partnering PI will not be able to view and modify their full application during the
verification period in eBRAP
When starting the pre-application, PIs should select a Mechanism Option appropriate to their
pre-application:
Application Includes: Select Mechanism Option:
Level 1 with Single PI Funding Level 1
Level 1 with Initiating PI and Partnering PI Funding Level 1 – Partnering PI Option
Level 2 with Single PI Funding Level 2
Level 2 with Initiating and Partnering PI Funding Level 2 – Partnering PI Option
Level 2 – Population Science Studies with
Single PI
Funding Level 2 – Population Science
Studies
Level 2 – Population Science Studies with
Initiating and Partnering PI
Funding Level 2 – Population Science
Studies – Partnering PI Option
5.3.2. Full Application Submission
Grants.gov Submissions: Full applications from extramural organizations must be
submitted through the Grants.gov Workspace.
eBRAP Submissions: Only intramural DOW organizations may submit full applications
through eBRAP.
5.3.3. Applicant Verification of Full Application Submission in eBRAP
Independent of the submission portal, once the full application is submitted, it is
transmitted to and processed in eBRAP; the transmission to eBRAP may take up to 48
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 20
hours. At this stage, the PI and organizational representatives will receive an email from eBRAP
instructing them to log in to eBRAP to review, modify and verify the full application submission.
The Project Narrative and Research & Related Budget Form cannot be changed after the
application submission deadline. Other application components, including subaward
budget(s) and subaward budget justification(s), may be changed until the application verification
period ends. The full application cannot be modified once the application verification period
ends.
5.4. Submission Dates and Times
The pre-application and full application submission process should be started early to avoid
missing deadlines. Regardless of submission portal used, all pre- and full application
components must be submitted by the deadlines stipulated in this program announcement.
There are no grace periods for deadlines; failure to meet submission deadlines will result in
application rejection. The DHACA cannot make allowances/exceptions for submission
problems encountered by the applicant.
Submission dates and times are specified in Section 1, Basic Information.
5.5. Intergovernmental Review
Not applicable for this funding opportunity.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 21
6. Application Review Information
6.1. Application Compliance Review
Submitting applications that propose essentially the same research project to different
funding opportunities within the same program and fiscal year is prohibited and will
result in administrative withdrawal of the duplicative application(s).
While it is allowable to propose similar research projects to different programs within the
CDMRP or to other organizations, duplication of funding or accepting funding from more than
one source for the same research is prohibited. See the CDMRP’s Directive on Research
Duplication.
Including classified research data within the application and/or proposing research that
may produce classified outcomes or outcomes deemed sensitive to national security
concerns, may result in application withdrawal.
Members of the FY26 BCRP Programmatic Panel must not be involved in any pre-application or
full application including, but not limited to, concept design, application development, budget
preparation and the development of any supporting documentation, including personal letters of
support/recommendation for the research and/or PI. Programmatic panel members may provide
letters to confirm PI eligibility and access to laboratory space, equipment and other resources
necessary for the project if that is part of their regular roles and responsibilities (e.g., as
Department Chair). A list of the FY26 BCRP Programmatic Panel members can be found
on the CDMRP website.
Additional restrictions and associated administrative responses are outlined in Section 9.2,
Administrative Actions.
6.2. Review Criteria
6.2.1. Pre-Application Screening Criteria
Pre-applications submitted to this funding opportunity are used for program planning purposes
only (e.g., reviewer recruitment) and will not be screened.
6.2.2. Peer Review Criteria
To determine technical merit, all applications will be evaluated individually according to the
following scored criteria. The Impact and Research Strategy and Feasibility criteria are of
equal importance, followed by Personnel and Partnership (if applicable).
• Impact
○ To what degree the proposed project will have a major impact on the overarching
challenge(s).
○ To what degree the project meets the requirement for high potential to accelerate
progress toward ending breast cancer substantially beyond an incremental advance.
○ Whether the proposed research will lead to a fundamentally new strategy or approach to
preventing or ending breast cancer that is significantly more effective than current
strategies or approaches.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 22
○ To what degree the application justifies how the identified breast cancer patients or at-
risk individuals would benefit from the proposed research. Research benefiting a single
subtype is considered impactful as long as the impact for that subtype is high.
• Research Strategy and Feasibility
○ How well the scientific rationale supports the project and its feasibility as demonstrated
by a critical review and analysis of published literature, logical reasoning, and
preliminary data, if applicable (Funding Level 1 does not require preliminary data but
Funding Level 2 does).
○ How well the application develops and integrates the project’s hypothesis, objective,
specific aims, experimental design, methods and analyses.
○ How well the application acknowledges potential pitfalls and problem areas, and
addresses alternative methods and approaches.
○ If applicable, how well the application describes an appropriate plan for recruitment of
human subjects or acquisition of human biological samples and demonstrates the
accessibility of necessary data, cohort(s) and/or samples.
○ If applicable, whether there is an appropriate plan for data reporting and documentation
to support a regulatory filing with the FDA or an equivalent international regulatory
agency.
○ How well the study is designed to achieve reproducible and rigorous results, including
the choice of model and the endpoints/outcomes to be measured.
○ Whether the application provides an appropriate statistical plan including power analysis,
if applicable.
○ If applicable, whether the strategy for the inclusion of women and minorities and
distribution of proposed enrollment are appropriate for the proposed research.
○ Whether the strategy for considering sex as a biological variable is appropriate to the
objectives of the study or whether the justification for a single-sex study is sufficiently
strong.
• Personnel
○ Whether the application includes an appropriate and robust research team with the
combined backgrounds and breast cancer-related expertise to successfully conduct of
the project.
○ How appropriate the levels of effort are for successful conduct of the proposed work.
○ Applications Submitted by Postdoctoral Fellows:
– To what degree the application demonstrates that the PI has the potential to manage
the technical and administrative aspects of the award and successfully accomplish
the proposed research.
– To what degree the application demonstrates that the PI will have appropriate
mentorship to successfully conduct and complete the project.
• Partnership (applicable only to PPIO applications)
○ How well the partnership and combined expertise of the Initiating and Partnering PIs
contribute to the research strategy and completion of the proposed work.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 23
○ To what degree the partnership will better address the research question together rather
than through separate individual efforts.
○ How well the application reflects both PIs’ equal intellectual contribution to the project’s
design and their similar levels of effort devoted to the conduct of the project.
○ Whether the application proposes balanced funding between both PIs or otherwise
includes appropriate justification.
In addition, the following criteria will also contribute to the overall evaluation of the application,
but will not be individually scored and are therefore termed unscored criteria:
• Research Sharing Plan
○ To what extent the plan for sharing of project data and research resources is appropriate
and reasonable and includes dissemination to affected communities, study participants
and/or the scientific community. If applicable, whether the application names specific
repository(ies) where data and research resources arising from the project will be stored.
• Environment
○ To what extent the scientific environment and level of institutional support is appropriate
for the proposed research project.
○ How well the research requirements are supported by the availability of and accessibility
to facilities and resources.
○ If applicable, to what degree the intellectual and material property plan is appropriate.
• Innovation (Funding Level 1 only)
○ To what degree the proposed research is innovative and addresses breast cancer in a
fundamentally new way.
○ To what degree the proposed research will investigate a novel idea or approach and is
not the next step in an established process or targeting strategy nor building on
significant preliminary data.
○ Whether the proposed research either introduces an entirely new paradigm or
challenges existing paradigms in unprecedented ways.
• Budget
○ Whether the budget is appropriate for the proposed research.
• Application Presentation
○ To what extent the writing, clarity and presentation of the application components
influence the review.
6.2.3. Programmatic Review
To make funding recommendations and select the application(s) that, individually or collectively,
will best achieve the program objectives, the following criteria are used by programmatic
reviewers:
• Ratings and evaluations of peer reviewers
• Relevance to the priorities of the FY26 BCRP, as evidenced by the following:
○ Adherence to the intent of the funding opportunity
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 24
○ Program portfolio composition
○ Relative impact
○ Relative innovation (Funding Level 1 only)
6.3. Application Review and Selection Process
6.3.1. Pre-Application
There is no review and selection process for pre-applications submitted to this funding
opportunity. CDMRP will NOT provide an invitation to submit a full application after pre-
application submission. Applicants are encouraged to develop pre-application and full
application components concurrently and submit a full application AFTER successful
submission of the pre-application.
6.3.2. Full Application
All applications are evaluated by scientists, clinicians and consumers in a two-tier review
process. The first tier is peer review, the evaluation of applications against established criteria
to determine technical merit, where each application is assessed for its own merit, independent
of other applications. The second tier is programmatic review, a comparison-based process in
which applications with high scientific and technical merit are further evaluated for programmatic
relevance. Final recommendations for funding are subject to review and approval by a
designated official. The highest-scoring applications from the first tier of review are not
automatically recommended for funding. Funding recommendations depend on various
factors as described in Section 6.2.3, Programmatic Review. Additional information about
the two-tier process used by the CDMRP can be found on the CDMRP website.
Funding of applications received is contingent upon the availability of federal funds for this
program, the number of applications received, the quality and merit of the applications as
evaluated by peer and programmatic review, and the requirements of the government. Funds to
be obligated on any award resulting from this funding opportunity will be available for use for a
limited time period based on the fiscal year of the funds.
6.4. Risk, Integrity and Performance Information
Prior to making an assistance agreement award where the federal share is expected to exceed
the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 2, Part
200.1 (2 CFR 200.1), over the period of performance, the federal awarding agency is required to
review and consider any information about the applicant that is available in the SAM.
An applicant organization may review the SAM and submit comments on any information
currently available about the organization that a federal awarding agency previously entered.
The federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other
information in the designated integrity and performance system, in making a judgment about the
applicant’s integrity, business ethics and record of performance under federal awards when
determining a recipient’s qualification prior to award, according to the qualification standards of
the Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARs), Section 22.415.
In accordance with National Security Presidential Memorandum-33 and all associated laws, all
fundamental research funded by the DOW must be evaluated for affiliations with foreign entities.
All applicant organizations must disclose foreign affiliations of all key personnel named on
applications. Failure to disclose foreign affiliations of key personnel shall lead to withdrawal of
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 25
recommendations to fund applications. Applicant organizations may be presented with an
opportunity to mitigate identified risks, particularly those pertaining to influence from foreign
entities specified in law. Implementation of mitigation discussions and utilization of the DOD
Component Decision Matrix must decrease risk of foreign influence in accordance with the
above-mentioned laws and guidance prior to award.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 26
7. Federal Award Notices
For each compliant full application received, the organizational representative(s) and PI will
receive email notification when the funding recommendations are posted to eBRAP, typically
within 6 weeks after programmatic review. At this time, each PI will receive a peer review
summary statement on the strengths and weaknesses of the application and an information
paper describing the application receipt and review process for the BCRP award mechanisms.
The information papers and a list of organizations and PIs recommended for funding are also
posted on the program’s page within the CDMRP website. After all awards are made, the
CDMRP includes individual award information in a searchable database.
If an application is recommended for funding, after the email notification is posted to eBRAP, a
government representative will contact the person authorized to negotiate on behalf of the
recipient organization.
Only an appointed DHACA Grants Officer may obligate the government to the
expenditure of funds to an extramural organization. No commitment on the part of the
government should be inferred from discussions with any other individual. The award
document signed by the Grants Officer is the official authorizing document (i.e.,
assistance agreement).
Intragovernmental obligations of funding will be made according to the terms of a
negotiated Inter-Agency Agreement and managed by a CDMRP Science Officer.
Funding obligated to intragovernmental and intramural DOW organizations will be
sent through the Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR), Funding
Authorization Document (FAD) or Direct Charge Work Breakdown Structure processes. Transfer
of funds is contingent upon appropriate safety and administrative approvals. Intragovernmental
and intramural DOW investigators and collaborators must coordinate receipt and commitment of
funds through their respective Resource Manager/Task Area Manager/Comptroller or equivalent
Business Official.
An organization may, at its own risk and without the government’s prior approval, incur
obligations and expenditures to cover costs up to 90 days before the beginning date of the initial
budget period of a new award.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 27
8. Post-Award Requirements
8.1. Administrative and National Policy Requirements
Applicable requirements in the DoDGARs found in 32 CFR, Chapter I, Subchapter C, and
2 CFR, Chapter XI, apply to grants and cooperative agreements resulting from this program
announcement.
The GAI contains information regarding administrative requirements and national policy
requirements.
Refer to full text of the latest DoD R&D Terms and Conditions and the DHACA Terms and
Conditions for further information.
If there are delinquencies in technical reporting requirements for any existing DHA or
U.S. Army Medical Research and Development Command awards at the applicant
organization, DHACA will not issue any new awards to the applicant organization until all
delinquent reports have been submitted.
Applications recommended for funding that involve animals, human data, human
specimens, human subjects or human cadavers must be reviewed for compliance with
federal animal and/or human subjects protection requirements and must be approved by
the DHA R&D Office of Research and Regulatory Compliance (ORRC), prior to implementation.
This administrative review requirement is in addition to the local Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committee (IACUC), IRB or Ethics Committee (EC) review.
8.2. Reporting
Annual technical progress reports as well as a final technical progress report will be required.
Annual and final technical progress reports must be prepared in accordance with the Research
Performance Progress Report (RPPR).
The Award Terms and Conditions will specify whether additional and/or more frequent reporting
is required.
PHS Inclusion Enrollment Reporting (Required for research proposing clinical research):
Enrollment reporting on the basis of sex, race, and/or ethnicity will be required with each annual
and final progress report. The PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report is available on eBRAP.
Award Expiration Transition Plan: An Award Expiration Transition Plan, using the template
available on eBRAP, must be submitted with the final progress report.
Awards resulting from this program announcement may entail additional reporting requirements
related to recipient integrity and performance matters. Recipient organizations that have federal
contract, grant and cooperative agreement awards with a cumulative total value greater than
$10M are required to provide information to the SAM about certain civil, criminal and
administrative proceedings that reached final disposition within the most recent 5-year period
and that were connected with their performance of a federal award. These recipients are
required to disclose, semiannually, information about criminal, civil and administrative
proceedings as specified in the applicable Representations.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 28
8.3. Additional Requirements
Unless otherwise restricted, changes in the PI, Initiating PI, or Partnering PI or an
organizational transfer of an award supporting the PI, Initiating PI, or Partnering PI will be
allowed on a case-by-case basis, provided the intent of the award mechanism is met.
An organizational transfer of an award will not be allowed in the last year of the original period of
performance or any extension thereof.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 29
9. Other Information
9.1. Program Announcement Version
Questions related to this program announcement should refer to the program name, the
program announcement name and the program announcement version code CD26_01d.
9.2. Administrative Actions
After receipt of full applications, the following administrative actions may occur.
9.2.1. Rejection
The following will result in administrative rejection of the full application:
• The pre-application was not submitted.
• The Project Narrative is missing.
• The Budget is missing.
9.2.2. Modification
• Pages exceeding the specified limits will be removed prior to reviewing all documents.
• Documents not requested will be removed.
9.2.3. Withdrawal
The following may result in administrative withdrawal of the full application:
• A member of the FY26 BCRP Programmatic Panel is named as being involved in the
development or execution of the research proposed or is found to have assisted in the pre-
application or application processes.
• The application includes the name(s) of personnel from either of the CDMRP peer or
programmatic review companies for which conflicts cannot be adequately mitigated. For
FY26, the identities of the peer review contractor and the programmatic review contractor
may be found on the CDMRP website.
• Personnel from applicant or collaborating organizations are found to have contacted
persons involved in the review or approval process to gain protected evaluation information
or to influence the evaluation process.
• The application from an extramural organization, including non-DOW federal agencies, is
received through eBRAP.
• The federal government recipient organization (including an intramural DOW organization):
(a) cannot accept and execute the entirety of the requested budget in FY26 funds; and/or
(b) cannot coordinate the use of contractual, assistance or other appropriate agreements to
provide funds to collaborators.
• The application fails to conform to this program announcement description.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 30
• The application includes URLs, with the exception of links in the References Cited and
Publication and/or Patent sections.
• The application includes research data that are classified and/or proposes research that
may produce classified outcomes, or outcomes deemed sensitive to national security
concerns.
• The same research project is submitted to different funding opportunities within the same
program and funding cycle.
• The PI previously submitted the same application under funding opportunity
HT942526BCRPBTA12 as PI, Initiating PI or Partnering PI.
• The PI does not meet the eligibility criteria.
• The application does not address at least one of the FY26 BCRP Overarching Challenges
and did not provide adequate justification for exception.
• An investigator may be named as a PI or Initiating PI on a single application and a
Partnering PI for one additional application to this Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2
program announcement. If an investigator is named multiple times as a PI, Initiating PI or
Partnering PI, only the first application received for the PI type will be accepted; additional
applications will be administratively withdrawn.
• A clinical trial is proposed.
• Partnering PI Option: Failure to submit all associated (Initiating and Partnering PI)
applications by the deadline.
9.2.4. Withhold
Applications that appear to involve research misconduct will be administratively withheld from
further consideration pending organizational investigation. The organization will be required to
provide the findings of the investigation to the DHACA Grants Officer for a determination of the
final disposition of the application.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 31
Appendix 1. Full Application Submission Checklist
Full Application Components Uploaded
PI/Initiating
PI
Partnering
PI
SF424 Research & Related Application for Federal Assistance
(Grants.gov submissions only) ☐ ☐
Summary (Tab 1) and Application Contacts (Tab 2)
(eBRAP submissions only) ☐ ☐
Attachments
Project Narrative – Attachment 1, upload as
“ProjectNarrative.pdf” ☐
Supporting Documentation – Attachment 2, upload as
“Support.pdf” ☐
Technical Abstract – Attachment 3, upload as “TechAbs.pdf” ☐
Lay Abstract – Attachment 4, upload as “LayAbs.pdf” ☐
Statement of Work – Attachment 5, upload as “SOW.pdf” ☐ ☐
Impact Statement – Attachment 6, upload as “Impact.pdf” ☐
Partnership Statement (if applicable) – Attachment 7, upload
as “Partnership.pdf” ☐
Mentorship Statement (if applicable) – Attachment 8, upload
as “Mentorship.pdf” ☐ ☐
Innovation Statement (if applicable) – Attachment 9, upload
as “Innovation.pdf” ☐
Representations (Grants.gov submissions only) –
Attachment 10, upload as “RequiredReps.pdf” ☐ ☐
Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget Form
(if applicable) – Attachment 11, upload as “IGBudget.pdf” ☐ ☐
Additional Application Materials
Research & Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) ☐ ☐
Attach Biographical Sketch for Senior/Key Persons
(Biosketch_LastName.pdf) ☐ ☐
Attach Current/Pending Support for Senior/Key Persons
(Support_LastName.pdf) ☐ ☐
Research & Related Budget ☐ ☐
Project/Performance Site Location(s) Form ☐ ☐
Research & Related Subaward Budget Attachment(s) Form
(if applicable) ☐ ☐
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 Award 32
Appendix 2. Acronym List
ARRIVE Animal Research: Reporting of In Vivo Experiments
BCRP Breast Cancer Research Program
BTA12 Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2
CDMRP Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
CONSORT Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials
DHA Defense Health Agency
DHA R&D Defense Health Agency Research and Development
DHACA Defense Health Agency Contracting Activity
DOD U.S. Department of Defense
DoDGARs Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations
DOW U.S. Department of War
eBRAP Electronic Biomedical Research Application Portal
EC Ethics Committee
ET Eastern Time
FAD Funding Authorization Document
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration
FY Fiscal Year
GAI General Application Instructions
IACUC Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee
IRB Institutional Review Board
LOI Letter of Intent
M Million
MIPR Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
NIH National Institutes of Health
ORRC Office of Research and Regulatory Compliance
PDF Portable Document Format
PHS Public Health Service
PI Principal Investigator
PPIO Partnering Principal Investigator Option
R&D Research and Development
RPPR Research Performance Progress Report
SABV Sex as a Biological Variable
SAM System for Award Management
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application Contents and Format | Submission Requirements
Application Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 Breast Cancer Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2 Award 33
SF424 R&R Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance, Research & Related)
SOW Statement of Work
SPIRIT Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials
STROBE STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology
UEI Unique Entity Identifier
URL Uniform Resource Locator
USC United States Code
VA U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
