This broad agency announcement must be read in conjunction with the General
Submission Instructions, version CD26_01.
Broad Agency Announcement for the Defense Health Agency
Joint Warfighter Medical Research
Program
Military Medical Research and
Development Award
Funding Opportunity Number: HT942526JWMRPMMRDA
Preapplication/Preproposal Due: August 18, 2026
Application/Proposal Due: November 16, 2026
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 2
Content
Before You Begin 3
Basic Information
Summarizes the funding opportunity, funding details, submission deadlines and review
dates
4
Eligibility
Details eligibility factors for the applicant/offeror organization and Principal Investigator
5
Program Description
Describes the program mission and intent of the Military Medical Research and
Development Award; provides key award information and considerations; and outlines
funding details
6
Application/Proposal Contents
Presents the two-step application/proposal process and instructions for preparing a
preapplication/preproposal and full application/proposal
11
Submission Requirements
Provides locations for application/proposal packages, instructions for submitting
preapplications/preproposals and full applications/proposals, and describes
application/proposal verification
23
Review Information
Outlines the processes for compliance review, preapplication/preproposal and full
application/proposal selection/notification, and risk assessment. Also, details the review
criteria for preapplication/preproposal screening and both tiers of the CDMRP review
process – Peer Review and Programmatic Review
26
Federal Award Notices
Outlines what a successful applicant/offeror can expect if recommended for funding
33
Post-Award Requirements
References policy requirements for funded research; outlines reporting requirements
and restrictions related to Principal Investigator changes and institutional award
transfers
34
Other Information
Outlines criteria for administrative actions including application/proposal rejection,
modification, withdrawal and withhold
36
Appendix 1
Includes a checklist for all full application/proposal components to facilitate submission
38
Appendix 2
Acronym List
39
Appendix 3
Technology Readiness Levels and Knowledge Readiness Levels
41
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 3
Before You Begin
• Active SAM.gov, eBRAP.org and Grants.gov registrations are required for
application/proposal submission. User registration for each of these websites can take
several weeks or longer. Each applicant/offeror must ensure their registrations are active
and up to date prior to application/proposal preparation.
• Read this funding opportunity announcement in the order it is written before
beginning to prepare application/proposal materials. It is the responsibility of the
applicant/offeror to determine whether the proposed research meets the intent of this
funding opportunity and that all parties meet eligibility requirements.
• To support application preparation, additional resources are available including an
application process FAQ, a Guide for Intragovernmental & Intramural Applicants and a
CDMRP Video Series detailing the application process.
Who to Contact for Support
This document uses internal links; you can go back to where you were by pressing the
Alt + left arrow keys (Windows) or command + left arrow keys (Macintosh) on your keyboard.
eBRAP Help Desk
301-682-5507
help@eBRAP.org
Questions regarding
funding opportunity submission
requirements,
as well as technical assistance
related to
preapplication/preproposal or
intramural full application/proposal
submission.
Grants.gov Support Center
800-518-4726
International: 1-606-545-5035
support@grants.gov
Questions regarding
Grants.gov registration
and Workspace.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 4
1. Basic Information About the Funding Opportunity
Summary: The fiscal year 2026 (FY26) Joint Warfighter Medical Research Program (JWMRP)
Military Medical Research and Development Award (MMRDA) mechanism is intended to fund
the logical continuation of previous Department of War (DOW)-funded research and
development efforts relevant to the FY26 JWMRP that augment and accelerate high-
priority medical requirements to meet the needs of Service Members and other Military
Health System beneficiaries. The MMRDA supports a wide range of research projects
spanning late-stage preclinical studies, late-state technology development efforts, technology
demonstration, translational, and clinical research. Projects must be relevant to at least one
of the FY26 JWMRP focus areas.
Distinctive Features:
To be eligible for JWMRP funding, applicants/offerors must have already received DOD/DOW
core or DOD/DOW Congressional Special Interest funding.
An MMRDA Clinical Research or Clinical Trial Option (MMRDA-CRCTO) is available to
specifically support clinical research/observational studies, all phases of clinical trials
/interventional studies, and/or correlative studies in support of the development of promising
pharmaceutical or biologic candidates, medical devices and technologies. Applicants/offerors
should select MMRDA-CRCTO when the application/proposal involves research that includes
any human subjects, human biological samples (prospective or retrospective) or human data
sets. Note: If selecting this option, applicants must submit additional relevant application/
proposal materials.
Funding Details: The Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs (CDMRP) expects
to allot roughly $8.8M to fund approximately two MMRDA applications/proposals with total cost
caps of $1.4M per award for the MMRDA, and approximately two MMRDA-CRCTO
applications/proposals with total cost caps of $3.0M per award for the MMRDA-CRCTO. The
maximum period of performance is 3 years. It is anticipated that awards made from this FY26
funding opportunity will be funded with FY26 funds, which will expire for use on September 30,
2032. Awards supported with FY26 funds will be made no later than September 30, 2027.
Submission and Review Dates and Times
• Preapplication/Preproposal Submission Deadline: 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET),
August 18, 2026
• Invitation to Submit an Application/Proposal: September 21, 2026
• Application/Proposal Submission Deadline: 11:59 p.m. ET, November 16, 2026
• End of Application/Proposal Verification Period: 5:00 p.m. ET, November 23, 2026
• Peer Review: February 2026
• Programmatic Review: April/May 2027
Announcement Type: Initial
Funding Opportunity Number: HT942526JWMRPMMRDA
Assistance Listing Number: 12.420
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 5
2. Eligibility Information
2.1. Eligible Applicants/Offerors
2.1.1. Organization
Extramural and intramural DOW organizations are eligible to apply, including foreign and
domestic organizations, for-profit and nonprofit organizations, and public or private
entities.
Extramural Organization: A foreign or domestic non-DOW organization. Examples of
extramural organizations include, but are not limited to, academic institutions, biotechnology
companies, foundations, federal government organizations other than the DOW (i.e.,
intragovernmental organizations) and research institutes.
Intramural DOW Organization: A subset of intragovernmental organizations; refers specifically
to DOW organizations, including DOW laboratories, DOW military treatment facilities, and/or
DOW activities embedded within a civilian medical center.
In accordance with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.77 and FAR 35.017,
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) are not eligible to directly
receive awards under this Broad Agency Announcement (BAA). However, teaming
arrangements between FFRDCs and eligible organizations are allowed as long as they are
permitted under the sponsoring agreement between the federal government and the specific
FFRDC.
2.1.2. Principal Investigator
Independent investigators affiliated with an eligible organization are eligible to be named
Principal Investigator (PI) on the application/proposal, regardless of ethnicity, nationality or
citizenship status.
To be eligible for JWMRP funding, applicants/offerors must have already received DOD/DOW
core or DOD/DOW Congressional Special Interest funding.
There are no limitations on the number of applications/proposals for which an investigator may
be named as a PI.
2.2. Cost Sharing
Cost sharing is not an eligibility requirement for contracts or assistance agreements, but may
exist if Research Other Transaction (OT) or Prototype OT is the selected funding instrument.
Cost-sharing requirements for OTs are stated in 10 USC 4021 for Research OTs and 10 USC
4022 for Prototype OTs.
2.3. Other
Awards are made to eligible organizations, not to individuals. Refer to the General Submission
Instructions, Appendix 1, for additional awardee qualification requirements.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 6
3. Program Description
The Defense Health Agency Contracting Activity (DHACA) is soliciting applications/proposals to
this funding opportunity using delegated authority provided by United States Code, Title 10,
Section 4001 (10 USC 4001). The CDMRP is the program office managing this FY26 funding
opportunity as part of the JWMRP. The CDMRP is located within the Defense Health Agency
Research and Development (DHA R&D), which is a part of the Department of Defense, DOD,
herein referred to using the secondary title Department of War, DOW. Congress initiated the
JWMRP in 2012 to augment and accelerate high-priority DOW and service medical
requirements to continue prior-year initiatives that are close to achieving their objectives and
yield a benefit to military medicine. The ultimate goal of the program is to expedite the delivery
of highly impactful medical solutions to Service Members and Military Health System
beneficiaries; in order to ensure the highest degree of military relevance, advanced product
development communities are critical partners in executing the JWMRP. Appropriations for the
JWMRP from FY12 through FY25 totaled $615 million (M). The FY26 appropriation is $10M.
3.1. Award History
The JWMRP first offered awards in FY12. Since then, a total of 194 individual projects have
received funding.
3.2. Intent of the Military Medical Research and Development Award
The MMRDA mechanism is intended to fund the logical continuation of previously DOW-funded
research or development efforts that are relevant to the FY26 JWMRP focus areas and have the
highest potential to augment and accelerate military-relevant medical product development and
health care solutions for Service Members, with the potential for benefit among Veterans,
military Family beneficiaries and the American public.
To be eligible for JWMRP funding, applicants/offerors must have previously received DOW core
or DOW Congressional Special Interest funding (including DOW Small Business Innovation
Research [SBIR]/Small Business Technology Transfer [STTR] awards) consistent with the
research area being proposed for continuation under this MMRDA. Research proposed under
the FY26 JWMRP MMRDA must demonstrate a logical continuation of previous DOW-funded
research and development efforts with relevance to at least one of the FY26 JWMRP focus
areas. If the previous DOW-funded award is no longer active, the period of performance must
have been completed no more than two years prior to the preapplication/preproposal
submission deadline. The funding shall be awarded at DOW discretion following a review of
medical research and development gaps as well as the unfinanced medical requirements of the
services. This FY26 JWMRP BAA does not support new project concepts or basic
research.
The MMRDA supports research projects spanning late-stage preclinical studies, late-stage
technology development efforts, technology demonstration and translational research.
The MMRDA-CRCTO supports clinical research/observational studies, all phases of clinical
trials/interventional studies and/or correlative studies in support of the development of promising
pharmaceutical or biologic candidates, medical devices and technologies. Note: Applicants/
offerors selecting this option are required to submit additional relevant application/proposal
materials, as described in Section 4.3, Full Application/Proposal Components.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 7
3.2.1. Focus Areas for the MMRDA
The JWMRP Programmatic Panel identified the following focus areas as the highest priorities
for FY26 JWMRP funding to meet critical research and development gaps and service medical
requirements. To meet the intent of the funding opportunity, applications/proposals to the
FY26 JWMRP must address at least one of the focus areas listed below.
• Non-vaccine approaches to prevent endemic diarrheal disease and broad-spectrum
antivirals to prevent and/or treat emerging or endemic infectious diseases, excluding malaria
• Solutions to mitigate hemorrhage and/or support trauma resuscitation, including but not
limited to blood, biologics and therapeutics
• Solutions to prevent and/or treat injuries due to temperature extremes (e.g., heat
exhaustion, heat stroke, hypothermia and frostbite)
• Solutions to support forward treatment of musculoskeletal injuries (MSKI) and reduce impact
of MSKI on operational effectiveness
• Medical countermeasures to radiation exposure, including pre-exposure prophylaxis,
biodosimetry (inclusive of rapid screening and diagnostic tools), and post-exposure
treatments (excluding cytokines)
3.2.2. Key Elements for the MMRDA
The following are important aspects of the FY26 JWMRP MMRDA:
Impact: The overall impact of the proposed research is a key component of this award
mechanism. The application must clearly exhibit the project’s potential impact on improving the
delivery of military-relevant health care solutions. High-impact research is expected to lead to
the development, translation, and/or implementation of medical solutions for military application.
Relevance to Military Health: Relevance to the care of military Service Members is a key
feature of this award. The proposed research should exhibit potential to augment and/or
accelerate the development of materiel/knowledge products or outcomes with direct relevance
to military medicine.
Technology/Knowledge Readiness: Tangible products under development must be at or
above Technology Readiness Level (TRL) 5 (e.g., proof-of-concept and prototype development
must be well-established in appropriate preclinical models, if applicable; non-GLP in vivo toxicity
and efficacy of lead compound complete; or preliminary FDA [or equivalent] discussions
complete). Studies proposing knowledge products must be at or above Knowledge Readiness
Level (KRL) 5 (see Appendix 3) (e.g., ready to test a priori hypotheses using rigorous scientific
design, or clinical validation of a diagnostic tool). All projects should exhibit strong potential for
eventual transition to advanced development and/or implementation into military medical
settings in the near future.
3.2.3. Other Important Considerations for the MMRDA
This BAA is issued under the provisions of the Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 (Public
Law 98-369), as implemented in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 6.102(d)(2)(i) and 35.016
and in Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARs) 22.315. In
accordance with FAR 35.016, projects funded under this BAA must be for applied research, as
well as that part of development not related to developing a specific system or hardware
procurement.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 8
In accordance with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026, Section 732,
CDMRP does not support the conduct of painful research (U.S. Department of Agriculture pain
category D or E) involving domestic cats or dogs, except for studies relating to military or
service animals.
Animal research is allowed within this funding opportunity.
Clinical research (including clinical trials) is allowed within this funding opportunity.
A clinical trial is defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 32, Part 219.102 (32 CFR
219.102) as a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned
to one or more interventions (which may include a placebo or another control) to evaluate the
effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes. An
intervention includes both physical procedures by which information or biospecimens are
gathered, and manipulations of the subject or the subject's environment that are performed for
research purposes.
Studies that do not seek to measure safety, effectiveness and/or efficacy outcome(s) of
an intervention are not considered clinical trials.
For the purposes of this funding opportunity, research that meets the definition of a
clinical trial is distinct from clinical research. Clinical research encompasses research with
human data, human specimens and/or interaction with human subjects. Clinical research is
observational in nature and includes:
(1) Research conducted with human subjects and/or material of human origin such as data,
specimens, and cognitive phenomena for which an investigator (or co-investigator) does not
seek to assess the safety, effectiveness and/or efficacy outcomes of an intervention. Research
meeting this definition may include but is not limited to: (a) mechanisms of human disease; (b)
diagnostic or detection studies (e.g., biomarker or imaging); (c) health disparity studies; and (d)
development of new technologies.
(2) Epidemiologic and behavioral studies that do not seek to assess the safety, effectiveness,
and/or efficacy outcomes of an intervention.
(3) Outcomes research and health services research that do not fit under the definition of clinical
trial.
Excluded from the definition of clinical research are in vitro studies that utilize human data or
specimens that cannot be linked to a living individual and meet the requirements for exemption
under §46.104(d)(4) of the Common Rule.
All projects should adhere to a core set of standards for rigorous study design and reporting to
maximize the reproducibility and translational potential of clinical and preclinical research, such
as those described in the STROBE, CONSORT, SPIRIT and ARRIVE 2.0 guidelines.
Applications/proposals from investigators within the DOW and applications/proposals involving
multidisciplinary collaborations among academia, industry, the DOW, the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA) and other federal government agencies are highly encouraged. These
relationships can leverage knowledge, infrastructure and access to unique clinical populations
that the collaborators bring to the research effort, ultimately advancing research that is of
significance to Service Members, Veterans, their Families and the American Public. If the
proposed research relies on access to unique resources or databases, the application/proposal
must describe the access at the time of submission and include a plan for maintaining access
as needed throughout the proposed research.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 9
3.3. Funding Instrument
The funding instrument for awards made under this BAA will be assistance agreements,
contracts, or OTs. The type of instrument used to reflect the business relationship between the
organization and the government is at the discretion of the government, in accordance with the
Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, as amended, 31 USC 6301-6308, which
provides the legal criteria to select a procurement contract or an assistance agreement. The
DHACA will also consider the use of OTs as a vehicle for award, in accordance with the
conditions in 10 USC 4021 and 10 USC 4022.
An assistance agreement can take the form of a grant or cooperative agreement. The level
of involvement on the part of CDMRP during the project’s period of performance is the key
factor in determining whether to award a grant or cooperative agreement. If “no substantial
involvement” on the part of CDMRP is anticipated, a grant will be made (31 USC 6304).
Conversely, if “substantial involvement” on the part of CDMRP is anticipated, a cooperative
agreement will be made (31 USC 6305). Substantial involvement means that, after award,
CDMRP staff will assist, guide, coordinate or participate in project activities.
A contract is required when the principal purpose of the instrument is to acquire property or
services for the direct benefit or use of the U.S. government (31 USC 6303).
An “OT” is utilized for certain awards when the government determines execution of the project
requires flexibility (10 USC 4021 and 10 USC 4022). Such flexibility may allow for incorporation
of dynamic commercial industry standards and best practices or adjustment of project scope to
evolving requirements of government use cases.
The award type, along with the start date, will be determined during the negotiation process.
3.4. Funding Details
Period of Performance: The maximum period of performance is 3 years.
Cost Cap: The application/proposal’s total costs budgeted for the entire period of performance
should not exceed $1.4M for the MMRDA or $3.0M for the MMRDA-CRCTO. If indirect cost
rates have been negotiated, indirect costs are to be budgeted in accordance with the
organization’s negotiated rate. Collaborating organizations should budget associated indirect
costs in accordance with each organization’s negotiated rate.
All direct and indirect costs of any subaward or contract must be included in the direct costs of
the primary award.
The applicant/offeror may request the entire maximum funding amount for a project that may
have a period of performance less than the maximum 3 years.
The appropriateness of the budget for the proposed research will be assessed during peer
review.
Direct Cost Restrictions: For this award mechanism, direct costs:
Must be requested for:
• Travel Costs for the PI to present project information or disseminate project results at one
DOW-sponsored meeting (e.g., Military Health System Research Symposium) in Year 2 or 3
of the period of performance.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 10
May be requested for (not all-inclusive):
• Travel in support of multi-institutional collaborations.
• Costs for one investigator to travel to one scientific/technical meeting per year in addition to
the required meeting described above. The intent of travel to scientific/technical meetings
should be to present project information or disseminate project results from the JWMRP
MMRDA or MMRDA-CRCTO.
Must not be requested for:
• Costs for travel to scientific/technical meeting(s) beyond the limits stated above.
• Tuition.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 11
4. Application/Proposal Contents and Format
4.1. Application/Proposal Overview
Application/proposal submission is a two-step process requiring both a preapplication/
preproposal submitted via the Electronic Biomedical Research Application Portal (eBRAP) and
a full application/proposal submitted through eBRAP or Grants.gov. Depending on the
submission portal, certain aspects of the application/proposal will differ.
Intramural DOW organizations submitting a full application/proposal should follow
instructions for submission through eBRAP.
Extramural organizations submitting a full application/proposal must follow instructions
for submission through Grants.gov.
4.2. Preapplication/Preproposal Components
Preapplication/preproposal submissions must include the following components.
• Preapplication/preproposal Template (six-page limit): Download from eBRAP and
provide responses to the questions in the FY26 JWMRP Preapplication/preproposal
Template. Refer to Appendix 3, Technology/Knowledge Readiness Level Definitions. No
figures, charts, graphs, or other additional material will be accepted during the
preapplication/preproposal process.
4.3. Full Application/Proposal Components
Applicants/offerors must receive an invitation to submit a full application/proposal. Uninvited full
application/proposal submissions will be rejected.
Each application/proposal submission must include the completed full application/proposal
package for this BAA. See Appendix 1 for a checklist of the full application/proposal
components.
(a) SF424 Research & Related Application for Federal Assistance Form (Grants.gov
submissions only): Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Section IV.B.(a), for
detailed information.
IMPORTANT: When completing the SF424 R&R, enter the eBRAP log number assigned
during preapplication/preproposal submission into Block 4a – Federal Identifier.
(b) Attachments:
Each attachment of the full application/proposal components must be uploaded as an
individual file in the format specified and in accordance with the formatting guidelines listed
in the General Submission Instructions, Appendix 2.
Attachment 1: Project Narrative (20-page limit): Upload as “ProjectNarrative.pdf”.
The Project Narrative is the main body of the application/proposal. The page limit applies
to text and non-text elements (e.g., figures, tables, graphs, photographs, diagrams,
chemical structures, drawings) used to describe the project. Inclusion of URLs (uniform
resource locators) that provide additional information that expands the Project Narrative
and could confer an unfair competitive advantage is prohibited and may result in
administrative withdrawal of the application/proposal.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 12
Describe the proposed project in detail using the outline below.
− Background:
 Describe the previously funded research or materiel/knowledge product
development effort identified in the notification of invitation, including a
description of the accomplishments and outcomes from that award. Explain how
this proposed effort is a logical continuation of the previous research or
materiel/knowledge product development effort.
 Explain how the research has the potential to augment and/or accelerate medical
product development in at least one of the FY26 JWMRP Focus Areas.
 Present the scientific rationale to support the feasibility of the proposed research
or materiel/knowledge product development effort, including relevant literature
citations, preliminary data, and/or preclinical data that led to the development of
the proposed research. The applicant/offeror may reference published or
unpublished preliminary data; however, any unpublished preliminary data should
originate from the laboratory of the PI or member(s) of the collaborating team.
 Provide sufficient evidence to support moving into the proposed stage of
research.
 As applicable to the proposed research, provide a summary of relevant studies,
clinical studies, or clinical trials, and distinguish how the proposed study differs
from other relevant or recently completed research or clinical trials. If applicable,
include a discussion of any current clinical use of the intervention under
investigation and/or details of clinical trial results for other indications.
− Hypotheses/Objectives: Clearly state the hypothesis (if applicable), a purpose
statement and/or the objective(s) to be reached.
− Specific Aims: Concisely explain the project’s specific aims. These aims should
agree with the primary aims and associated tasks described in the Statement of
Work (SOW). If this application/proposal is part of a larger study, present only tasks
that this award would fund. Avoid interdependency of specific aims when possible
(i.e., dependency on successful outcomes of other ongoing related research efforts).
− Research Strategy and Feasibility: Describe the proposed research strategy and
feasibility of the approach, addressing the following:
 Describe the study design, methods and analyses, including appropriate controls,
choice of animal model (if applicable) and the endpoints/outcome measures in
sufficient detail for evaluation of feasibility and effectiveness in supporting
completion of the project aims.
 Describe the availability of and access to the necessary study resources. If
human-derived biological specimens will be used, describe the sourcing and/or
acquisition of samples. If dataset(s) or human-derived specimens will be
obtained from military Service Members, military Families and/or Veteran
population(s), describe the feasibility of accessing the samples/dataset(s).
 Explain how the study is designed to achieve reproducible and rigorous results,
including (if applicable) controls, sample size estimation, power analysis,
blinding, randomization and data handling
 Applications/proposals that include research on animal models are also required
to submit Attachment 8, Animal Research Plan.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 13
 Applications/proposals that include human subjects, human biological samples
(prospective or retrospective) or human data sets are also required to submit
Attachment 9, Study Population Recruitment/Sample Acquisition and Safety Plan.
 Describe potential pitfalls, including interdependency of aims (i.e., dependency
on successful outcomes of other ongoing related research efforts), and discuss
alternative methods/approaches that may be employed to overcome them.
In addition, for applications/proposals submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO:
 Indicate whether the proposed clinical study is observational or experimental.
Include the following components, as applicable: describe the intervention,
including the complete name of the investigational product, storage and handling
information, source, dose, schedule, administration route and duration of the
intervention. Indicate who holds the intellectual property rights to the intervention,
if applicable, and how the PI has obtained access to those rights, along with
access to the intervention itself, for conduct of the clinical trial.
 Outline the proposed clinical study/trial methodology and study variables in
sufficient detail to demonstrate a clear course of action and justification. For
studies proposing clinical trials, describe the type of clinical trial to be
performed (e.g., treatment, prevention, diagnostic), the phase of trial and/or class
of device (as appropriate), and the study model (e.g., single group, parallel,
crossover).
 Identify and describe the observation/intervention and the projected outcomes.
Describe how the outcomes address current clinical needs and how they
compare with currently available standards of care.
 Provide a schedule (e.g., flowchart or diagram) of study observations/
interventions, evaluations, and follow-up procedures, including any data or sample
collection.
 Explain how the study is designed to achieve reproducible and rigorous results,
including (if applicable) controls, sample size estimation, power analysis, blinding,
randomization and data handling. Provide an estimate of the recruitable
population and the enrollment target. Consult appropriate guidelines to ensure
relevant aspects of rigorous and reproducible research are adequately planned for
and, ultimately, reported. Describe any measures to reduce bias.
 Describe the statistical plan and the rationale for the statistical methodology,
including the sample size projections and as applicable, any subgroup analyses.
 If applicable, explain how the statistical plan compensates for the use of a
subpopulation within the recruited sample population to ensure appropriate
power can be achieved within the subpopulation.
 Describe data collection and handling, including rules for stopping data
collection, how outliers will be defined and handled, and identification of primary
endpoints/outcomes.
Attachment 2: Supporting Documentation: Combine and upload as a single file
named “Support.pdf”. Begin each document on a new page. The Supporting
Documentation attachment should not include additional information such as figures,
tables, graphs, photographs, diagrams, chemical structures or drawings. These items
should be included in the Project Narrative. Submitting material that is not requested
may be viewed as an attempt to gain an unfair competitive advantage; such material will
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 14
be removed, or the application/proposal may be administratively withdrawn. Letters of
support not requested in the broad agency announcement, such as those from
members of Congress, will be removed from the application/proposal package.
References Cited: List the references cited in the Project Narrative using a standard
reference format (include URLs, if available).
List of Abbreviations, Acronyms and Symbols: Provide a list of abbreviations,
acronyms and symbols.
Facilities, Existing Equipment and Other Resources: Describe the facilities and
equipment available for performance of the proposed project; include any additional
facilities or equipment proposed for acquisition at no cost to the award. Indicate
whether government-furnished facilities or equipment are proposed for use. If so,
reference the original or present government award under which the facilities or
equipment items are now accountable. There is not a standardized form for this
information.
Publications and/or Patents: Include a list of relevant publication URLs and/or
patent abstracts. If articles are not publicly available, then copies of up to five
published manuscripts may be included in Attachment 2. Extra items will not be
reviewed.
Letters of Support (two-page limit per letter is recommended): Provide individual
letters signed by collaborating individuals and/or organizational officials
demonstrating that the PI has the support and resources necessary for the proposed
work. Letters from the PI’s Department Chair, or appropriate organization official,
should also confirm that the PI(s) meet eligibility criteria. If applicable, provide a letter
of support, signed by the lowest-ranking person with approval authority, confirming
participation of intramural DOW collaborator(s) and/or access to military populations,
databases or DOW resources. If applicable, provide a letter of support signed by the
VA Facility Director(s), or an individual designated by the VA Facility Director(s),
confirming access to VA patients, resources and/or VA research space.
Sex as a Biological Variable Strategy (two-page limit is recommended):
Describe the strategy for how sex will be considered as a biological variable. This
strategy should include a brief discussion of what is currently known regarding sex
differences in the applicable research area. Clearly articulate how sex as a biological
variable will be factored into the data analysis plan and how data will be collected
and disaggregated by sex. If needed, provide a strong rationale for proposing a
single-sex study, based on justification from scientific literature, preliminary data or
other relevant considerations. Refer to the CDMRP Directive on Sex as a Biological
Variable in Research for additional information.
Background and Proprietary Information: Provide a list of all background
intellectual property to be used in the project or provide a statement that none will be
used. All software and data first produced under this BAA are subject to a federal
purpose license. Therefore, it is important to disclose/list any intellectual property
(software, data, patents, etc.) that will be used in performance of the project. If
applicable, all proprietary information to be provided to the government should be
stated and identified; the applicant/offeror should indicate whether a waiver of the
federal purpose license will be required. Additional information can be found in the 2
CFR 200.315, “Intangible Property.”
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 15
Research Sharing Plan: Describe the type of data or research resources (e.g., bio-
specimen, analysis tool/software, training material) to be made publicly available as
a result of the proposed work. Describe the mechanism (e.g., direct sharing,
repository, mixed mode) by which data and resources generated during the period of
performance will be shared with the research community and other affected
communities, including clinical research participants. Include the name of the
repository(ies) where scientific data and resources arising from the proposed study
will be archived, if applicable. Identify and provide the rationale for any data or
resources that will not be shared (e.g. for intellectual property, feasibility, cost, or
other considerations). The plan should also protect participant privacy, confidential
and proprietary data, and performer/third-party intellectual property. Provide a
milestone plan for disseminating data/results including when data and resources will
be made available to other users. In cases where the study participant could
potentially derive medical or other benefit from the information, explain whether the
results of screening and/or study participation will be shared with the participant or
their primary care provider, including results from any screening or diagnostic tests
performed as part of the study.
Do not submit a copy of the National Institutes of Health Data Management and
Sharing Plan or duplicate the Data Management Plan which will be requested
only after a recommendation for funding is made.
Refer to the CDMRP Directive on Sharing Data and Research Resources for more
information about the CDMRP’s expectations for making data and research
resources publicly available.
Quad Chart: Provide a Quad Chart for the proposed project. The format for the quad
chart is available on the eBRAP “Funding Opportunities & Forms” webpage.
Attachment 3: Technical Abstract (one-page limit): Upload as “TechAbs.pdf”. The
technical abstract is used by all reviewers. Abstracts of all funded research projects
will be posted publicly. Use only characters available on a standard QWERTY
keyboard; spell out all Greek letters, other non-English letters, and symbols. Graphics
are not allowed.
Write the technical abstract using the outline below. Clarity and completeness within the
space limits are highly important.
Background: State how the proposed research addresses at least one of the FY26
JWMRP Focus Areas. Present the scientific rationale behind the proposed work.
Include the current TRL/KRL of the product or knowledge outcome (must be 5 or
greater), and the estimated target TRL/KRL upon completion of the proposed
research. See Appendix 3 for TRL/KRL guidance.
Hypothesis/Objective(s): State the hypothesis and/or objective(s).
Specific Aims: State the specific aims of the study.
Study Design: Describe the study design, including appropriate controls. For
applications/proposals that include clinical trials, state the type of clinical trial
proposed (e.g., treatment, prevention, diagnostic), the phase of the trial, the class of
device (as appropriate), and the study model (e.g., single group, parallel, crossover).
State the proposed intervention and the primary projected outcome(s) of the clinical
trial.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 16
Impact and Military Relevance: Highlight the likely contributions of the initiative to
augment and/or accelerate a materiel/knowledge product development effort.
Describe the military health relevance. Briefly explain how the proposed project will
have an immediate or potential long-term benefit expected to have a major impact on
the health and well-being of Service Members, with the potential to benefit military
Families, Veterans and/or the American public.
Attachment 4: Lay Abstract (one-page limit): Upload as “LayAbs.pdf”. The lay
abstract is used by all reviewers and addresses issues of particular interest to the
affected community. Abstracts of all funded research projects will be posted
publicly. Use only characters available on a standard QWERTY keyboard; spell out all
Greek letters, other non-English letters, and symbols. Graphics are not allowed. Do not
duplicate the technical abstract.
The lay abstract should address the points outlined below in a manner that is readily
understood by readers without a background in science or medicine. Avoid
overuse of scientific jargon, acronyms and abbreviations.
– Summarize the objectives and rationale for the proposed research.
– What population will the research help, and how will it help them?
– What are the potential applications, benefits and risks of the anticipated outcomes?
– What are the likely contributions of the proposed research project to advancing
research, patient care and/or quality of life?
– Describe how the results of the proposed study will ultimately benefit military Service
Members.
Attachment 5: Statement of Work (six-page limit): Upload as “SOW.pdf”. Refer to
eBRAP for the Suggested SOW Format.
For guidance on preparing the SOW, refer to either the Example: Assembling a Clinical
Research and/or Clinical Trial Statement of Work or Example: Assembling a Generic
Statement of Work, whichever is most appropriate for the proposed effort. Include
milestones for data or research resource(s) sharing.
Attachment 6: Impact Statement and Military Relevance Statement (two-page
limit): Upload as “Impact.pdf”. The impact statement should address the points
outlined below written in a manner that is readily understood by readers without a
background in science or medicine.
Explain why the proposed research or materiel/knowledge product development
effort is important and relevant to the role of the JWMRP in addressing high-priority
DOW medical requirements and capability gaps. Additionally, describe how the effort
will accelerate the development of products that will impact the Warfighter within the
context of the FY26 JWMRP Focus Area(s) addressed by the application/proposal.
Describe the potential impact on military populations. Provide information about the
incidence and/or prevalence of the disease or condition in military populations (if
known).
Describe how the proposed product/knowledge will lead to the development and
eventual translation of therapeutic or technological advances in the care of military
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 17
Service Members with the potential to benefit military Family beneficiaries, Veterans
and the American public.
Describe how the research will result in improvement over currently available military
health care standards and practices.
Describe the short-term impact. Detail the anticipated short-term outcome(s)/
product(s) (knowledge and/or materiel) of the proposed research or knowledge/
materiel product development effort, and describe how they will impact the relevant
populations.
Describe how the study will augment and/or accelerate product development, as
applicable.
If applicable, describe how the anticipated outcomes of the proposed study will make
an impact in understanding health differences between sexes.
Attachment 7: Post-Award Transition Plan (three-page limit): Upload as
“Transition.pdf”. Discuss the anticipated methods and strategies necessary to move
the anticipated research outcome (e.g., knowledge, methodology, product, intervention)
to the next phase of development (e.g., next-phase clinical trials, approval by a
Regulatory Agency, commercialization/transition to industry, incorporation into clinical
practice, and/or delivery to the civilian or military market) assuming successful
completion of the award. Applicants/offerors are encouraged to work with their
organization’s Technology Transfer Office (or equivalent) to develop the transition plan.
Applicants/offerors are encouraged to explore developing relationships with industry
and/or other funding agencies to facilitate moving the research outcome into the next
phase of development. The post-award transition plan should:
− Name the project’s anticipated research outcomes including knowledge products
and/or clinical products for development. A “knowledge product” is a non-materiel
product that aims to transition into medical practice, training, tools or to support
materiel solutions; and educates or impacts behavior throughout the continuum of
care, including primary prevention of negative outcomes.
− Demonstrate how the proposed product or knowledge outcome is currently at a
minimum TRL/KRL of 5 and estimate the target TRL/KRL upon completion of the
proposed research.
− Include a timeline with defined milestones for transitioning the anticipated research
outcomes to the next phase of development. Include steps toward Regulatory
Agency approval, if applicable. Describe the steps necessary to adapt and transition
the knowledge/product/intervention from civilian application to military fielding/
adoption/use.
− Describe current or planned collaborations and other resources (e.g., DOW partners,
clinical partners, commercial partners, manufacturing partners, clinical practice
guideline development committees, training providers/resources) to execute the
steps toward regulatory approval. Include a discussion of the funding strategy
necessary to transition the research outcome to the next level of investigation,
development and/or commercialization. This may include commercial sponsorship,
venture capital, federal or non-federal funding opportunities, etc. Include whether
there is a commercial market for the knowledge/product/intervention or if the
anticipated medical solutions are specific to a military market.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 18
− Describe ownership rights/access to the intellectual and/or material property
necessary for the development and/or commercialization of products or technologies
supported with this award, as well as the government’s ability to access such
products or technologies in the future. Include an Intellectual and Material Property
Plan for resolving intellectual and material property issues among participating
organizations. If the applicant/offeror does not own the intellectual property rights,
describe the steps necessary to make the product available to the target population.
− If prior federally funded SBIR/STTR data supports the proposed follow-on
development effort, describe the connection between the prior SBIR/STTR and the
current project and explain all active SBIR/STTR data rights.
− Include a risk analysis for cost, schedule, manufacturability and sustainability, if
applicable.
Attachment 8: Animal Research Plan (three-page limit): Upload as
“AnimalResPlan.pdf”. (Attachment 8 is only applicable and required for
applications/proposals proposing animal studies.) If the proposed study involves
animals, a summary describing the animal research that will be conducted must be
included in the application/proposal. Proposed studies should not rely on samples,
reagents, or tools that are contingent upon completion of other ongoing efforts
outside the scope of this proposal. Consult the ARRIVE guidelines 2.0 (Animal
Research: Reporting In Vivo Experiments) to ensure relevant aspects of rigorous animal
research are adequately planned for and, ultimately, reported. The Animal Research
Plan should address the following points to achieve reproducible and rigorous results for
each proposed animal study:
− Briefly describe the research objective(s) of the animal study. Explain how and why
the animal species, strain and model(s) being used can address the scientific
objectives and, where appropriate, the study’s relevance to human biology.
− Summarize the proposed animal procedures. Describe any planned controls.
− Describe the planned randomization and blinding procedures and any other
measures to minimize the effects of subjective bias during animal treatment and
assessment of results. If randomization and/or blinding will not occur, provide
justification.
− Provide a sample size estimate for each study arm and the method by which it was
derived, including power analysis calculations.
− Describe how data will be handled, including rules for stopping data collection,
criteria for inclusion and exclusion of data, how outliers will be defined and handled,
statistical methods for data analysis, and identification of the primary endpoint(s).
Attachment 9: Study Population Recruitment/Sample Acquisition and Safety Plan
(no page limit): Upload as “HumSubProc.pdf”. (Attachment 9 is applicable and
required for all applications/proposals submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO.) If the
proposed study involves human subjects, human biological samples (prospective or
retrospective), or human data sets the applicant/offeror is required to submit the
following information, as applicable to the proposed research. Proposed studies
should not rely on samples, reagents or tools that are contingent upon completion
of other ongoing efforts outside the scope of this proposal.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 19
− Enrollment Distribution: Provide an anticipated enrollment table(s) with the
proposed enrollment distributed on the basis of sex, race and ethnicity using the
Public Health Service (PHS) Inclusion Enrollment Report, which is a three-page
fillable PDF form, that can be downloaded from eBRAP. The enrollment table(s)
should be appropriate to the objectives of the study. Studies utilizing human
biospecimens or datasets that cannot be linked to a specific individual, sex,
race, or ethnicity (typically classified as exempt from Institutional Review
Board [IRB] review) are exempt from this requirement.
− Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria: List the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the
proposed clinical study/trial. If limiting inclusion by age, sex, race or ethnicity, provide
a strong rationale based on justification from scientific literature, preliminary data or
other relevant considerations. List and describe any evaluations (e.g., laboratory
procedures, history or physical examination) that are required to determine eligibility/
suitability for study participation and the diagnostic criteria for entry. Describe how
the study population represents the population anticipated to benefit from the
outcome/intervention.
− Study Population/Sample Availability: Demonstrate that the research team has
access to the proposed study/sample population at each site. Describe the
approximate number, pertinent demographic information and other relevant
characteristics of the study population at each enrollment site. Indicate whether the
actual size of available study population may be affected by ongoing clinical studies/
trials that compete for the same population. If the proposed research involves access
to military and/or VA patient populations and/or DOW or VA resources or databases,
describe the access at the time of submission and include a plan for maintaining
access as needed throughout the proposed research. Also include a plan for
obtaining any required data sharing, memorandum of understanding or other
agreements required to access and publish data. Refer to the General Submission
Instructions, Appendix 4, for additional considerations.
− Recruitment and Retention Process: Explain methods for identification of potential
study participants (e.g., medical record review, obtaining sampling lists, health care
provider identification). Describe the recruitment process in detail. Address who will
identify potential study participants, who will recruit them, and what methods will be
used to recruit them. Describe any special care (e.g., wound dressing assistance,
transportation due to side effects of study intervention impairing ability to drive) or
equipment (e.g., thermometers, telemedicine equipment) needed for study
participants. Include a detailed description of and justification for a participant
compensation plan, if applicable. Describe the strategy to retain study participants.
Discuss past efforts in recruiting and retaining study participants for previous clinical
studies/trials, if applicable. Address any potential barriers to accrual and plans for
addressing unanticipated delays, including a mitigation plan for slow or low
enrollment or poor retention. Estimate the potential for participant loss to follow-up,
and describe plans for handling/mitigating loss. Indicate whether the study team has
considered barriers to clinical study/trial participation and, if applicable, how the team
aims to mitigate or overcome these barriers.
− Women and Minorities in the Study: Describe the strategy for recruitment,
enrollment and retention specific to women and minorities in the clinical trial
appropriate to the objectives of the study, or a justification for limiting enrollment to
specific groups.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 20
− Informed Consent Process: Specifically describe the plan for obtaining informed
consent from study participants. Include information regarding the timing and location
of the consent process. If minors or other populations that cannot provide informed
consent are included in the proposed clinical trial, describe the plan to obtain assent
(agreement) from those with the capacity to provide it or a justification for a waiver of
assent. Appendix 6 of the General Submission Instructions contains additional
considerations unique to DOW-sponsored research.
− Risks/Benefits Assessment:
 Foreseeable Risks: Clearly identify all study risks, including potential safety
concerns and adverse events. Address any special precautions to be taken by
study participants before, during and after the study (e.g., medication washout
periods, dietary restrictions, hydration, fasting, pregnancy prevention). If
applicable, identify any potential risk to the study personnel.
 Risk management and emergency response: Appropriate to the study’s level
of risk, describe how safety monitoring and reporting to the IRB and Regulatory
Agency (if applicable) will be managed and conducted. Describe all safety
measures to minimize and/or eliminate risks to study participants and study
personnel or to manage unpreventable risks. Discuss the overall plan for
provision of emergency care or treatment for an adverse event for study-related
injuries, including who will be responsible for the cost of such care.
 Potential benefits: Describe known and potential benefits to the study
participants. Articulate the importance of the knowledge to be gained as a result
of the proposed research. Discuss why the potential risks to study participants
are reasonable in relation to the anticipated benefits to the study participants and
others that may be expected to result.
Attachment 10: Regulatory Strategy (no page limit): If submitting multiple
documents, start each document on a new page. Combine and upload as a single
file named “Regulatory.pdf”. (Attachment 10 is applicable and required for all
applications/proposals submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO.) Answer the following
questions and provide supporting documentation as applicable.
− State the product/intervention name.
For products/interventions that do not require regulation by a Regulatory Agency:
− Provide evidence that the clinical study/trial does not require regulation by a
Regulatory Agency. Submissions providing “not applicable,” “none” or similar
responses do not satisfy this request. No further information for this attachment is
required.
For products/interventions that require regulation by a Regulatory Agency:
− Describe the overall regulatory strategy and product development plan that will be
performed during the project’s period of performance to support the planned product
indication/label. Include, as appropriate, a description of the regulatory application
submission strategy.
 State whether the product is U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved,
-licensed or -cleared and marketed in the United States. If the product is
marketed in the United States, state the product label indication. State whether
the proposed research involves a change to the approved label indication.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 21
 If the product is not currently FDA-approved, -licensed or -cleared, state the
planned indication/use and whether an Investigational New Drug (IND) or
Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application was submitted. If an IND or
IDE application is required, provide detailed plans for initiating the clinical study
within the first year, including FDA IND/IDE application submission plans within
60 days of the award. The IND or IDE application should be specific for the
investigational product (i.e., not a derivative or alternate version of the product)
and indication to be tested in the proposed clinical study/trial. If an IND/IDE has
already been submitted provide the date of submission, the application number
and a copy of the FDA letter acknowledging the submission. The government
reserves the right to withdraw funding if this documentation has not been
obtained within 60 days of the start date of the award/contract.
 Provide a summary of any meetings the research team has had with regulatory
agencies or consultants regarding the proposed research. Include key outcomes,
action items and recommendations. If available, provide a copy of the
communication from the FDA indicating the IND or IDE application is active/safe
to proceed.
 If the clinical trial will be conducted at international sites, provide equivalent
information and supporting documentation relevant to the product indication/label
and regulatory approval and/or filings in the host country(ies).
○ Attachment 11: Study Personnel and Organization (no page limit): Start each
document on a new page. Combine into one document and upload as “Personnel.
pdf”. (Attachment 11 is applicable and required for all applications/proposals
submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO.) The Study Personnel and Organization
attachment should include the components listed below.
− Organizational Chart: Provide an organizational chart that identifies key members
of the study team and provides an outline of the governing structure for multi-
institutional studies. Identify collaborating organizations, centers and/or departments
and name each person’s position on the project. Include any separate laboratory or
testing centers. Identify the data and clinical coordinating center(s) and note any
involvement from Contract Research Organizations, as appropriate, including the
location of the organization. If applicable, identify the Regulatory Agency sponsor
and any external consultants or other experts who will assist with Regulatory Agency
sponsor applications. While there is no specified format for this information, a
table(s) or diagram is recommended.
− Study Personnel Description: Describe the composition of the study team in
enough detail to determine whether the team includes relevant subject matter
expertise to accomplish the proposed work. Include the roles of the individuals
named in the organizational chart along with any external consultants or advisors
who will provide critical guidance and input to the study team (e.g., independent
research monitor, statistician, regulatory expert, commercialization consultant,
clinical ethicist, patient advocate). Study coordinator(s) should be included. Describe
how the levels of effort for each individual are appropriate to successfully support the
proposed research.
− Study Management Plan: Describe the day-to-day management of the proposed
clinical trial. Provide a plan for ensuring the standardization of procedures among
staff and across sites (if applicable). If the proposed clinical trial involves more than
one institution, clearly describe the multi-institutional structure governing the
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 22
research protocol(s) across all participating institutions. If applicable, describe how
communication and data transfer between/among the collaborating institutions will
occur, as well as how data, specimens and/or imaging products obtained during the
study will be handled and shared. Provide a plan for resolving intellectual and
material property issues among participating organizations.
○ Attachment 12: Representations (Grants.gov submissions only): Upload as
“RequiredReps.pdf”. All extramural applicants/offerors must complete and submit the
Required Representations document available on eBRAP. For more information, see the
General Submission Instructions, Appendix 8, Section B.
○ Attachment 13: Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget Form (if
applicable): Upload as “IGBudget.pdf”. If an intramural DOW organization will be a
collaborator in the performance of the project, complete a separate budget for that
organization using the Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget form available
on eBRAP. Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Section V.B.(c), for
instructions and considerations.
(c) Additional Application/Proposal Materials:
The following are additional forms for application/proposal submission. For detailed
instructions for Grants.gov submissions, refer to the General Submission Instructions,
Section IV.C.; and for eBRAP submissions, refer to the General Submission Instructions,
Section V.B.
i. Research & Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded)
○ Biographical Sketch
○ Current/Pending Support
Intragovernmental applicants/offerors must include their internally supported
research and development programs.
ii. Research & Related Budget
iii. Project/Performance Site Location(s)
iv. Research & Related Subaward Budget Attachment(s) (if applicable, Grants.gov
submissions only)
4.4. Other Application/Proposal Elements
If recommended for funding, a data management plan compliant with Section 3.c, Enclosure 3,
DoD Instructions 3200.12 will be requested.
The government reserves the right to request a revised budget, budget justification and/or
additional information for applications/proposals recommended for funding.
If the resultant award is a contract that exceeds $900,000 and the offeror is other than a small
business, the contractor will be required to submit a subcontracting plan for small business
concerns, in accordance with FAR 19.7. A mutually agreeable plan will be developed during the
award negotiation process and incorporated as part of the resultant contract.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 23
5. Submission Requirements
5.1. Location of Application/Proposal Package
Download the application/proposal package components for HT942526JWMRPMMRDA from
Grants.gov or eBRAP, depending on which submission portal will be used.
5.2. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management
The applicant/offeror organization must be registered as an entity in the System for Award
Management (SAM), SAM.gov, and receive confirmation of an “Active” status before submitting
an application/proposal through Grants.gov. Organizations must include the unique entity
identifier (UEI) generated by the SAM in applications/proposals to this funding opportunity and
maintain an active registration in the SAM at all times during which it has an active Federal
award or an application/proposal under consideration. More information regarding SAM
registration can be found in the General Submission Instructions, Section IV.A.
5.3. Submission Instructions
The CDMRP uses two portal systems to accept pre- and full application/proposal submissions.
The workflow below shows which portal system to use for pre- and full application/proposal
submissions, respectively.
5.3.1. Preapplication/Preproposal Submission
All preapplication/preproposal components must be submitted by the PI through eBRAP. Refer
to the General Submission Instructions, Section III, for considerations and detailed instructions
regarding preapplication/preproposal submission.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 24
During the preapplication/preproposal process, eBRAP assigns each submission a unique log
number. This unique log number is required during the full application/proposal submission
process. The eBRAP log number, application/proposal title and all information for the PI,
Business Official(s), performing organization, and contracting organization must be consistent
throughout the entire application/proposal submission process. Inconsistencies may delay
application/proposal processing and limit or negate the ability to view, modify and verify the
application/proposal in eBRAP. Contact the eBRAP Help Desk if any changes need to be made.
When starting the preapplication/preproposal, PIs should select a Mechanism Option
appropriate to their preapplication/preproposal:
If the Application/Proposal: Select Mechanism Option:
DOES NOT INCLUDE human subjects,
identifiable human biological specimens, or
collection/use of raw/source human data
(e.g., not deidentified)
Military Medical Research and
Development Award (MMRDA)
INCLUDES any human subjects, identifiable
human biological specimens, or collection/use of
raw/source human data (e.g., not deidentified)
Military Medical Research and
Development Award –
Clinical Research or Clinical Trial Option
(MMRDA-CRCTO)
5.3.2. Full Application/Proposal Submission
Grants.gov Submissions: Full applications/proposals from extramural organizations must be
submitted through the Grants.gov Workspace. Refer to the General Submission Instructions,
Section IV, for considerations and detailed instructions regarding Grants.gov submissions.
eBRAP Submissions: Only intramural DOW organizations may submit full applications/
proposals through eBRAP. Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Section V, for
considerations and detailed instructions regarding eBRAP submissions.
5.3.3. Applicant/Offeror Verification of Full Application/Proposal Submission in eBRAP
Independent of the submission portal, once the full application/proposal is submitted, it is
transmitted to and processed in eBRAP; the transmission to eBRAP may take up to 48 hours. At
this stage, the PI and organizational representatives will receive an email from eBRAP
instructing them to log in to eBRAP to review, modify and verify the full application/proposal
submission. The Project Narrative and Research & Related Budget Form cannot be
changed after the application/proposal submission deadline. Other application/proposal
components, including subaward budget(s) and subaward budget justification(s), may be
changed until the application/proposal verification period ends. The full application/proposal
cannot be modified once the verification period ends.
5.4. Submission Dates and Times
The preapplication/preproposal and full application/proposal submission process should be
started early to avoid missing deadlines. Regardless of submission portal used, all pre- and full
application/proposal components must be submitted by the deadlines stipulated in this BAA.
There are no grace periods for deadlines; failure to meet submission deadlines will result in
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 25
application/proposal rejection. The DHACA cannot make allowances/exceptions for
submission problems encountered by the applicant/offeror.
Submission dates and times are specified in Section 1, Basic Information.
5.5. Intergovernmental Review
Not applicable for this funding opportunity.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 26
6. Review Information
6.1. Application/Proposal Compliance Review
Submitting applications/proposals that propose essentially the same research project to
different funding opportunities within the same program and fiscal year is prohibited and
will result in administrative withdrawal of the duplicative application(s)/proposal(s).
While it is allowable to propose similar research projects to different programs within the
CDMRP or to other organizations, duplication of funding or accepting funding from more than
one source for the same research is prohibited. See the CDMRP’s Directive on Research
Duplication.
Including classified research data within the application/proposal and/or proposing research that
may produce classified outcomes or outcomes deemed sensitive to national security concerns,
may result in application/proposal withdrawal. Refer to the General Submission Instructions,
Appendix 7, Section C.
Members of the FY26 JWMRP Programmatic Panel must not be involved in any preapplication/
preproposal or full application/proposal including, but not limited to, concept design, application/
proposal development, budget preparation and the development of any supporting
documentation, including personal letters of support/recommendation for the research and/or PI.
Programmatic panel members may provide letters to confirm PI eligibility and access to
laboratory space, equipment and other resources necessary for the project if that is part of their
regular roles and responsibilities (e.g., as Department Chair). A list of the FY26 JWMRP
Programmatic Panel members can be found on the CDMRP website.
Additional restrictions and associated administrative responses are outlined in Section 9.2,
Administrative Actions.
6.2. Review Criteria
6.2.1. Preapplication/Preproposal Screening Criteria
To determine the merits of the preapplication/preproposal and the relevance to the mission of
the JWMRP, preapplications/preproposals will be screened based on the following criteria:
• Whether the preapplication/preproposal describes the continuation of a prior year effort that
is ongoing/active at the time of preapplication/preproposal submission or that was
completed no more than two years prior to the preapplication/preproposal submission
deadline.
• Whether the preapplication/preproposal describes the continuation of a prior year effort that
achieved a TRL/KRL of 5 or greater.
• Whether the PI for the proposed follow-on effort is the same as the PI of the prior year effort
described in the preapplication/preproposal.
• How well the preapplication/preproposal describes a follow-on effort that is a logical
continuation of a previously funded, prior year materiel/knowledge product research and
development effort, while avoiding interdependency of aims.
• How well the proposed effort addresses at least one of the FY26 JWMRP Focus Areas.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 27
• Relative potential of the proposed effort to augment and/or accelerate clinical, technical or
materiel/knowledge product development with a clear benefit to military medicine.
• How well the preapplication/preproposal adequately describes the products or deliverables
expected from the proposed follow-on effort and any associated challenges.
• How well the regulatory strategy, commercialization strategy and the estimated TRL/KRL
demonstrates the transition potential of the anticipated product/outcome.
6.2.2. Peer Review Criteria
To determine technical merit, all applications/proposals will be evaluated individually according
to the following scored criteria, of which Research Strategy and Feasibility and Impact are
equally of most importance, with the remaining criteria listed in decreasing order of importance:
• Research Strategy and Feasibility
○ How well the application/proposal presents the scientific rationale behind the proposed
research or materiel/knowledge product development effort, including relevant literature
citations, preliminary data, and/or preclinical data, to support feasibility.
○ How well the application/proposal states the hypotheses and/or the objective(s) of the
study.
○ How well the application/proposal describes the experimental design, methods,
analyses, choice of study model, and endpoints/outcome measures, in sufficient detail
for evaluation of feasibility and effectiveness in supporting the completion of the project
aims.
○ How well the study is designed to achieve reproducible and rigorous results, including,
as applicable, controls, sample size estimation, blinding, randomization and data
handling.
○ Whether the SOW indicates a feasible plan and timeline to conduct the research, and
how well it provides clearly defined milestones.
○ How well the application/proposal describes potential problem areas, including
interdependency of aims (i.e., dependency on successful outcomes of other ongoing
related research efforts), and discusses a strategy with alternative methods/approaches
for overcoming obstacles.
○ Whether the strategy for considering sex as a biological variable is appropriate to the
objectives of the study or whether the justification for a single-sex study is sufficiently
strong.
• Additional Research Strategy and Feasibility Review Criteria for
Applications/Proposals Submitted Under the MMRDA-CRCTO
Whether the application/proposal clearly describes an observational or experimental
study.
Whether the proposed clinical study/trial methodology and study variables are described
in sufficient detail to demonstrate a clear course of action and justification for the study.
To what degree the outcomes address current clinical needs and how they compare with
currently available standards of care.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 28
Whether the proposal contains an adequate and feasible description of study
observations/interventions, evaluations and follow-up procedures (including any data or
sample collection).
Whether the proposal contains an adequate description of data collection and handling,
including rules for stopping data collection, how outliers will be defined and handled, and
identification of primary endpoints/outcomes.
• Impact
○ The degree to which the proposed effort is relevant to the role of the JWMRP in
addressing high-priority DOW medical requirements and capability gaps and
accelerating the development of products that will impact the Warfighter within the
context of the FY26 JWMRP Focus Area(s) addressed by the application/proposal.
○ To what degree the knowledge, technologies, or products gained from the research will
benefit military Service Members, with the potential to benefit military Family
beneficiaries, Veterans and the American public.
○ To what degree the research will result in improvement over currently available military
health care standards and practices.
○ To what degree the anticipated short-term outcomes(s)/products(s) (knowledge and/or
materiel) of the proposed effort will impact the relevant populations.
○ To what degree the proposed effort will augment and/or accelerate product development
(as applicable).
○ If applicable, to what extent the anticipated outcomes of the proposed study will make an
impact in understanding health differences between sexes.
• Transition Plan
○ Whether the transition plan is appropriate and well-described.
○ Whether the proposed research meets a current TRL or KRL of 5 or higher, and whether
the proposed target TRL or KRL is realistic and appropriate.
○ Whether the timeline and milestones for transitioning the anticipated research outcomes
to the next phase of development (i.e., next-phase clinical trials, commercialization/
transition to industry, delivery to market, incorporation into clinical practice, and/or
approval by the FDA) are achievable.
○ Whether the steps for adapting and transitioning a civilian knowledge/product/
intervention for military fielding/adoption/use are reasonable and achievable.
○ To what degree the collaborations and other resources (e.g., DOW partners, clinical
partners, commercial partners, manufacturing partners, clinical practice guideline
development/execution committees, training providers/resources) intended to help
advance the research outcome(s) are established and/or achievable.
○ Whether the funding strategy to transition the research outcome(s) to the next level of
investigation, development, and/or commercialization is reasonable and achievable.
○ How well the application/proposal identifies intellectual property ownership rights and/or
demonstrates the appropriate access to the intellectual property necessary for the
development and/or commercialization of products or technologies supported by this
funding opportunity announcement and identifies the government’s ability to access such
products or technologies in the future.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 29
○ How well the application/proposal describes an appropriate Intellectual and Material
Property Plan for resolving intellectual and material property issues among participating
organizations, (if applicable).
○ How well the application/proposal describes any active SBIR/STTR data rights (if
applicable).
○ Whether the risk analysis for cost, schedule, manufacturability and sustainability is
realistic and reasonable (if applicable).
• Regulatory Strategy (for applications/proposals submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO)
○ Whether the application/proposal includes documentation that the study is exempt from
regulatory agency oversight, or that the IND or IDE application (and/or international
equivalent) has been submitted to the Regulatory Agency, as appropriate.
○ How well the submission documentation provided supports the feasibility of acquiring an
active IND approval or IDE (and/or international equivalent) covering the proposed
study/trial, if applicable.
○ To what extent the regulatory strategy and product development plan is well-described
and appropriate to support the product label indication or product label change, if
applicable.
○ Whether the types of meetings the research team had with regulatory agencies or
consultants regarding the proposed research and the submission filing strategy are
appropriate, including any implications of conducting studies/trials at international sites.
• Study Population Recruitment/Sample Acquisition and Safety Plan (for
applications/proposals submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO)
○ To what degree the study/sample population, number of study participants/samples,
criteria for inclusion/exclusion, and the methods for recruitment/accrual of study
participants, samples, and/or data sets are reasonable to meet the needs of the
proposed research.
○ Whether the application/proposal demonstrates that the research team has access to
the proposed study/sample population at each site and describes the efforts that will be
made to achieve accrual goals.
○ Whether the projected enrollment estimate from the target population is feasible and
includes measures to minimize bias.
○ How well the application/proposal addresses any potential barriers to study participant/
sample accrual and plans for addressing unanticipated delays, including a mitigation
plan for slow or low enrollment and/or poor retention, for example.
○ As applicable, to what degree the process for seeking informed consent is appropriate,
and whether safeguards are in place for vulnerable populations.
○ As applicable, how the level of risk to study participants is minimized and how the safety
monitoring and reporting plan is appropriate for the level of risk.
○ Whether the distribution of the proposed enrollment on the basis of age, sex, race,
and/or ethnicity is appropriate for the proposed research, and if applicable, whether
there is strong justification for limiting inclusion of any demographic group.
○ Whether the strategy for the inclusion of women and minorities is appropriate for the
proposed research. Studies utilizing human biospecimens or datasets that cannot be
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 30
linked to a specific individual, ethnicity, or race (typically classified as exempt from IRB
review) are exempt from this requirement.
• Data and Statistical Analysis Plan
○ To what degree the statistical model and data analysis plan are suitable for the planned
study objectives.
○ To what degree the statistical plan, including power analysis for sample size projections,
is appropriate to meet the objectives of the study.
• Personnel
○ To what degree the background and expertise of the PI and other key personnel
demonstrate their ability to accomplish the proposed work, including whether there is
evidence of sufficient clinical and/or statistical expertise (as applicable).
○ To what degree the levels of effort of the PI and other key personnel are appropriate for
successful support of the proposed research.
In addition, the following criteria will also contribute to the overall evaluation of the
application/proposal, but will not be individually scored and are therefore termed unscored
criteria:
• Research Sharing Plan
○ To what extent the plan for sharing of project data and research resources is appropriate
and reasonable and includes dissemination to affected communities, study participants
and/or the scientific community. If applicable, whether specific repository(ies) are named
where data and research resources arising from the project will be stored.
• Budget
○ Whether the budget is appropriate for the proposed research.
• Environment
○ To what extent the scientific environment and level of institutional support is appropriate
for the proposed research project.
○ How well the research requirements are supported by the availability of and accessibility
to facilities and resources (including collaborative arrangements).
• Application/Proposal Presentation
○ To what extent the writing, clarity and presentation of the submission components
influence the review.
6.2.3. Programmatic Review
To make funding recommendations and select the application(s)/proposal(s) that, individually or
collectively, will best achieve the program objectives, the following criteria are used by
programmatic reviewers:
• Ratings and evaluations of peer reviewers
• Relevance to the priorities of the FY26 JWMRP, as evidenced by the following:
○ Military relevance, including alignment with and balance within and across the identified
DOW and services medical research priorities and portfolios
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 31
○ Relative potential to augment and/or accelerate clinical, technical or materiel/knowledge
product development efforts that directly benefit military medicine
○ Relative transition potential of the anticipated product/outcome
○ Relative impact on Service Members, their Families and Veterans
6.3. Application/proposal Review and Selection Process
6.3.1. Preapplication/Preproposal
Following the preapplication/preproposal screening, PIs will be notified as to whether they are
invited to submit full applications/proposals. The estimated date when PIs can expect to receive
notification of an invitation to submit a full application/proposal is indicated in Section 1, Basic
Information about the Funding Opportunity. No feedback (e.g., a critique of the preapplication/
preproposal’s strengths and weaknesses) is provided at this stage. Because the invitation to
submit a full application/proposal is based on the contents of the preapplication/preproposal,
investigators should not change the title or research objectives after the preapplication/
preproposal is submitted.
6.3.2. Full Application/Proposal
All applications/proposals are evaluated by scientists, clinicians and consumers in a two-tier
review process. The first tier is peer review, the evaluation of applications/proposals against
established criteria to determine technical merit, where each application/proposal is assessed
for its own merit, independent of other applications/proposals. The second tier is programmatic
review, a comparison-based process in which applications/proposals with high scientific and
technical merit are further evaluated for programmatic relevance. Final recommendations for
funding are subject to review and approval by a designated official. The highest-scoring
applications/proposals from the first tier of review are not automatically recommended
for funding. Funding recommendations depend on various factors as described in
Section 6.2.3, Programmatic Review. Additional information about the two-tier process used
by the CDMRP can be found on the CDMRP website.
Funding of applications/proposals received is contingent upon the availability of federal funds for
this program, the number of applications/proposals received, the quality and merit of the
applications/proposals as evaluated by peer and programmatic review, and the requirements of
the government. Funds to be obligated on any award resulting from this funding opportunity will
be available for use for a limited time period based on the fiscal year of the funds.
6.4. Risk, Integrity and Performance Information
The risk posed by an applicant/offeror will be assessed prior to award, including but not limited
to financial stability and history of performance.
An award may not be made if it is determined by the DHACA Warranted Official that COIs
cannot be adequately mitigated.
Prior to making an award where the federal share is expected to exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, over the period of performance, the federal
awarding agency is required to review and consider any information about the applicant/offeror
that is available in the SAM.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 32
An applicant/offeror organization may review the SAM and submit comments on any information
currently available about the organization that a federal awarding agency previously entered.
The federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant/offeror, in addition to
other information in the designated integrity and performance system, in making a judgment
about the applicant/offeror’s integrity, business ethics and record of performance under federal
awards when determining an awardee’s qualification prior to award, according to the
qualification standards of DoDGARs, Section 22.415.
In accordance with National Security Presidential Memorandum-33 and all associated laws, all
fundamental research funded by the DOW must be evaluated for affiliations with foreign entities.
All applicant/offeror organizations must disclose foreign affiliations of all key personnel named
on applications/proposals. Failure to disclose foreign affiliations of key personnel shall lead to
withdrawal of recommendations to fund applications/proposals. Applicant/offeror organizations
may be presented with an opportunity to mitigate identified risks, particularly those pertaining to
influence from foreign entities specified in law. Implementation of mitigation discussions and
utilization of the DOD Component Decision Matrix must decrease risk of foreign influence in
accordance with the above-mentioned laws and guidance prior to award.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 33
7. Federal Award Notices
For each compliant full application/proposal received, the organizational representative(s) and
PI will receive email notification when the funding recommendations are posted to eBRAP,
typically within 6 weeks after programmatic review. At this time, each PI will receive a peer
review summary statement on the strengths and weaknesses of the application/proposal and an
information paper describing the application/proposal receipt and review process for the
JWMRP award mechanisms. The information papers and a list of organizations and PIs
recommended for funding are also posted on the program’s page within the CDMRP website.
After all awards are made, the CDMRP includes individual award information in a searchable
database.
If an application/proposal is recommended for funding, after the email notification is posted to
eBRAP, a government representative will contact the person authorized to negotiate on behalf
of the awardee organization.
Only an appointed DHACA Warranted Official may obligate the government to the
expenditure of funds to an extramural organization. No commitment on the part of the
government should be inferred from discussions with any other individual. The award
document signed by the DHACA Warranted Official is the official authorizing document
(i.e., assistance agreement).
Intragovernmental obligations of funding will be made according to the terms of a
negotiated Inter-Agency Agreement and managed by a CDMRP Science Officer.
Funding obligated to intragovernmental and intramural DOW organizations will be sent
through the Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR), Funding Authorization
Document (FAD) or Direct Charge Work Breakdown Structure processes. Transfer of funds is
contingent upon appropriate safety and administrative approvals. Intragovernmental and
intramural DOW investigators and collaborators must coordinate receipt and commitment of
funds through their respective Resource Manager/Task Area Manager/Comptroller or equivalent
Business Official.
For assistance agreement awards, an organization may, at its own risk and without the
government’s prior approval, incur obligations and expenditures to cover costs up to 90 days
before the beginning date of the initial budget period of a new award.
For contract awards and OTs, an organization may request and negotiate pre-contract/pre-
agreement costs prior to award.
Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Section I.D, Pre-Award Costs section, for
additional information about pre-award costs.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 34
8. Post-Award Requirements
8.1. Administrative and National Policy Requirements
Applicable requirements in the DoDGARs found in 32 CFR, Chapter I, Subchapter C, and
2 CFR, Chapter XI, apply to grants and cooperative agreements resulting from this BAA.
Applicable requirements in the FAR, found in 48 CFR, Chapter 1; and Defense Federal
Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), found in 48 CFR, Chapter 2, apply to contracts
resulting from this BAA.
Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Appendix 7, for general information regarding
administrative requirements.
Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Appendix 8, for general information regarding
national policy requirements.
Refer to full text of the latest DoD R&D Terms and Conditions and the DHACA Terms and
Conditions for further information.
If there are delinquencies in technical reporting requirements for any existing DHA or
U.S. Army Medical Research and Development Command awards at the applicant/offeror
organization, DHACA will not issue any new awards to the applicant/offeror organization
until all delinquent reports have been submitted.
Applications/proposals recommended for funding that involve animals, human data, human
specimens, human subjects or human cadavers must be reviewed for compliance with federal
animal and/or human subjects protection requirements and must be approved by the DHA R&D
Office of Research and Regulatory Compliance (ORRC), prior to implementation. This
administrative review requirement is in addition to the local Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committee (IACUC), IRB or Ethics Committee (EC) review. Refer to the General Submission
Instructions, Appendix 6, for additional information.
Funded trials are required to post a copy of the informed consent form used to enroll subjects
on a publicly available federal website in accordance with federal requirements described in 32
CFR 219. Additionally, the CDMRP requires all funded clinical trials to register and submit study
results on ClinicalTrials.gov.
8.2. Reporting
Annual technical progress reports, annual quad charts, and a final technical progress report will
be required for all applications recommended for funding. Quarterly reports will also be required
for funded applications proposing a clinical trial. Annual and final technical progress reports
must be prepared in accordance with the Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR).
If the award made under this funding opportunity is a contract or OT, additional reporting
requirements may apply.
The Award Terms and Conditions will specify whether additional and/or more frequent reporting
is required.
Award Expiration Transition Plan: An Award Expiration Transition Plan, using the template
available on eBRAP, must be submitted with the final progress report.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 35
PHS Inclusion Enrollment Reporting (only required for clinical research studies and clinical
trials): Enrollment reporting on the basis of sex, race, and/or ethnicity using the PHS Inclusion
Enrollment Report will be required with each annual and final progress report. The PHS
Inclusion Enrollment Report is available on eBRAP.
Awards resulting from this broad agency announcement may entail additional reporting
requirements related to awardee integrity and performance matters. Awardee organizations that
have federal contract, grant and cooperative agreement awards with a cumulative total value
greater than $10M are required to provide information to the SAM about certain civil, criminal
and administrative proceedings that reached final disposition within the most recent 5-year
period and that were connected with their performance of a federal award. These awardees are
required to disclose, semiannually, information about criminal, civil and administrative
proceedings as specified in the applicable Representations within General Submission
Instructions, Appendix 8, Section B.
8.3. Additional Requirements
Unless otherwise restricted, changes in the PI or organization will be allowed on a case-by-case
basis, provided the intent of the award mechanism is met.
The organizational transfer of an award supporting a clinical trial is strongly discouraged and in
most cases will not be allowed. Approval of a transfer request will be on a case-by-case basis at
the discretion of the Grants Officer.
An organizational transfer of an award will not be allowed in the last year of the original period of
performance or any extension thereof.
Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Appendix 7, Section G, for general information on
organization or PI changes.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 36
9. Other Information
9.1. Broad Agency Announcement Version
Questions related to this broad agency announcement should refer to the program name, the
broad agency announcement name and the broad agency announcement version code
CD26_01Bd.
9.2. Administrative Actions
After receipt of preapplications/preproposals or full applications/proposals, the following
administrative actions may occur.
9.2.1. Rejection
The following will result in administrative rejection of the preapplication/preproposal:
• Preapplication/preproposal is missing or incomplete.
• Preapplication/preproposal does not adhere to the provided template format.
• Preapplication/preproposal exceeds page limit.
The following will result in administrative rejection of the full application/proposal:
• The Project Narrative is missing.
• The Budget is missing.
• Submission of an application/proposal for which a letter of invitation was not issued.
For applications/proposals submitted under the MMRDA-CRCTO and/or involving human
subjects/samples/data:
• Attachment 9, Study Population Recruitment/Sample Acquisition and Safety Plan, is
missing.
• Attachment 10, Regulatory Strategy, is missing.
• Attachment 11, Study Personnel and Organization is missing
9.2.2. Modification
• Pages exceeding the specified limits will be removed prior to reviewing all documents.
• Documents not requested will be removed.
9.2.3. Withdrawal
The following may result in administrative withdrawal of the full application/proposal:
• A member of the FY26 JWMRP Programmatic Panel is named as being involved in the
development or execution of the research proposed or is found to have assisted in the
preapplication/preproposal or full application/proposal processes.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 37
• The application/proposal includes the name(s) of personnel from either of the CDMRP peer
or programmatic review companies for which conflicts cannot be adequately mitigated. For
FY26, the identities of the peer review contractor and the programmatic review contractor
may be found on the CDMRP website.
• Personnel from applicant/offeror or collaborating organizations are found to have contacted
persons involved in the review or approval process to gain protected evaluation information
or to influence the evaluation process.
• The application/proposal from an extramural organization, including non-DOW federal
agencies, is received through eBRAP.
• The federal government applicant/offeror organization (including an intramural DOW
organization): (a) cannot accept and execute the entirety of the requested budget in FY26
funds; and/or (b) cannot coordinate the use of contractual, assistance or other appropriate
agreements to provide funds to collaborators.
• The application/proposal fails to conform to this broad agency announcement description.
• The application/proposal includes URLs, with the exception of links in the References Cited
and Publication and/or Patent sections.
• The application/proposal includes research data that are classified and/or proposes
research that may produce classified outcomes, or outcomes deemed sensitive to national
security concerns.
• The PI does not meet the eligibility criteria.
• The invited application/proposal proposes a different research project than that described in
the preapplication/preproposal.
• The invited application/proposal proposes research that is not a logical continuation of the
previously DOW-funded research or development effort identified in the notification of
invitation.
For applications/proposals involving animal research:
• Attachment 8, Animal Research Plan, is missing.
9.2.4. Withhold
Applications/proposals that appear to involve research misconduct will be administratively
withheld from further consideration pending organizational investigation. The organization will
be required to provide the findings of the investigation to the DHACA Warranted Official for a
determination of the final disposition of the application/proposal.
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 38
Appendix 1. Full Application/Proposal Submission Checklist
Full Application/Proposal Components Uploaded
SF424 Research & Related Application for Federal Assistance
(Grants.gov submissions only) ☐
Summary (Tab 1) and Application Contacts (Tab 2)
(eBRAP submissions only) ☐
Attachments
Project Narrative – Attachment 1, upload as “ProjectNarrative.pdf” ☐
Supporting Documentation – Attachment 2, upload as “Support.pdf” ☐
Technical Abstract – Attachment 3, upload as “TechAbs.pdf” ☐
Lay Abstract – Attachment 4, upload as “LayAbs.pdf” ☐
Statement of Work – Attachment 5, upload as “SOW.pdf” ☐
Impact Statement and Military Relevance Statement – Attachment 6,
upload as “Impact.pdf” ☐
Post-Award Transition Plan – Attachment 7, upload as “Transition.pdf” ☐
Animal Research Plan (if applicable) – Attachment 8, upload as
“AnimalResPlan.pdf” ☐
Study Population Recruitment/Sample Acquisition and Safety Plan
(if applicable) – Attachment 9, upload as “HumSubProc.pdf” ☐
Regulatory Strategy (if applicable) – Attachment 10, upload as
“Regulatory.pdf” ☐
Study Personnel and Organization (if applicable) – Attachment 11,
upload as “Personnel.pdf” ☐
Representations (Grants.gov submissions only) –
Attachment 12, upload as “RequiredReps.pdf” ☐
Suggested Intragovernmental/Intramural Budget Form (if applicable) –
Attachment 13, upload as “IGBudget.pdf” ☐
Additional Application/Proposal Materials
Research & Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) ☐
Attach Biographical Sketch for Senior/Key Persons
(Biosketch_LastName.pdf) ☐
Attach Current/Pending Support for Senior/Key Persons
(Support_LastName.pdf) ☐
Research & Related Budget ☐
Project/Performance Site Location(s) ☐
Research & Related Subaward Budget Attachment(s) (if applicable) ☐
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 39
Appendix 2. Acronym List
ARRIVE Animal Research: Reporting In Vivo Experiments
BAA Broad Agency Announcement
CDMRP Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
COI Conflict of Interest
CONSORT Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials
DFARS Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DHA Defense Health Agency
DHA R&D Defense Health Agency Research and Development
DHACA Defense Health Agency Contracting Activity
DOD U.S. Department of Defense
DoDI Department of Defense Instruction
DoDGARs Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations
DOW U.S. Department of War
eBRAP Electronic Biomedical Research Application Portal
EC Ethics Committee
ET Eastern Time
FAD Funding Authorization Document
FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration
FFRDC Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FY Fiscal Year
IACUC Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee
IDE Investigational Device Exemption
IND Investigational New Drug
IPR In-Progress Review
IRB Institutional Review Board
JWMRP Joint Warfighter Medical Research Program
KRL Knowledge Readiness Level
M Million
MIPR Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
MMRDA Military Medical Research and Development Award
MMRDA-CRCTO Military Medical Research and Development Award – Clinical Research or
Clinical Trial Option
MSKI Musculoskeletal Injuries
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 40
ORRC Office of Research and Regulatory Compliance
OTs Other Transactions
PDF Portable Document Format
PHS Public Health Service
PI Principal Investigator
R&D Research and Development
RPPR Research Performance Progress Report
SAM System for Award Management
SBIR Small Business Innovation Research
SF424 R&R Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance, Research &
Related)
SOW Statement of Work
SPIRIT Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials
STROBE STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology
STTR Small Business Technology Transfer
TRL Technology Readiness Level
UEI Unique Entity Identifier
URL Uniform Resource Locator
USC United States Code
VA U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Section Shortcuts
Basic Information | Eligibility | Program Description | Application/Proposal Contents | Submission Requirements
Review Information | Federal Award Notices | Post-Award Requirements | Other Information
FY26 JWMRP Military Medical Research and Development Award 41
Appendix 3. Technology Readiness Levels and
Knowledge Readiness Levels
Refer to the CDMRP Biomedical Product Maturity Guidelines for more information about
TRL/KRL assessment
(https://cdmrp.health.mil/jwmrp/pdfs/Biomedical%20Product%20Guidelines.pdf)
In brief:
TRLs: TRLs are used to categorize the product maturity of materiel solutions. The DOW uses
Technology Readiness Assessment (TRA) for systematic assessment of technical maturity of
relevant materiel solutions across all acquisition domains. Biomedical TRL definitions and
descriptions have been developed that account for regulatory context for technology maturity
and intended context of use. The FY26 JWMRP uses the Veterans Affairs Biomedical
Technology Readiness Levels. Refer to the CDMRP Biomedical Product Maturity Guidelines
document linked above when assessing your TRL.
KRLs: The scientific maturity of knowledge products resulting from biomedical research is not
assessed in the same manner as that of materiel solutions. At the request of the DHA R&D
MRDC, the Rand Corporation developed and released a framework to assess the relative
scientific maturity of knowledge products. This process is described in a published 2019 Rand
Corporation report. Refer to the CDMRP Biomedical Product Maturity Guidelines document
linked above when assessing your KRL.
